two one and we're live ladies and
gentlemen or gentlemen and two ladies
and gentlemen listening but you two
unless you have some non-binary handle
that you enjoy it's it's a new world
please please introduce yourself sure so
I'm dr. Mike Hart originally from st.
John's Newfoundland now I'm residing in
London Ontario and I'm a family doctor
and I've been practicing cannabis
medicine for just over five years and
use her my name is Alex Berenson I used
to be a New York Times reporter then I
became a spy novelist and most recently
I wrote the book tell your children the
truth about marijuana mental illness and
violence which came out last month and
has not endeared me to the cannabis
advocacy community I'd say have they
attacked you mercilessly for this book
yes and that's and that's okay
I've also heard from a lot of parents
you know some users but parents who've
told me that the book really encapsulate
s' they're their family's problems in
the last couple years I suspect my my
real thoughts here before we even get
started as a we're gonna find that the
truth is somewhere in the middle here
I don't think marijuana is a hundred
percent safe honestly for everybody I
really don't I know too many people that
have had experiences where they took too
much particularly edibles and I don't I
want to say I know anybody who had
psychotic breaks but I know some people
that freaked out for weeks you know in
fact we just had a comedian here from
Brazil a couple days ago
Rafi Bosco's who said he took a couple
of hits of a vape pen he was high for 14
days went to a psychiatrist and and he's
a big guy he's like six foot five six
six you know and you know they told him
to keep taking it cuz you know he's like
he's you're so big just keep smoking and
so he doesn't smoke so he just kept
hitting his vape pen he said I was high
for fucking two weeks yeah you need to
do it properly right yes he held to the
same standard as any other medicines
to identify that there's risks and
there's benefits to it
yeah and and some people are definitely
you know going to be more susceptible to
those risks yeah and we need to kind of
you know tease out those people and make
sure that those people you know don't
put themselves at risk yeah I think so
as well and this is one of the reasons
why I want to state this because I'm a
well-known marijuana advocate but I I do
believe I believe absolutely there are
great benefits to it I think there's
great benefits in terms of relieving
pressure or ocular pressure for people
that have glaucoma people with AIDS who
are medication people with cancer that
are going through chemotherapy find
great benefit in terms of helping them
and then there's also some people with
autism I know people that they're
children of autism and they give them
small amounts of edible marijuana and
stop seizures it's incredibly beneficial
in the form of CVD for a lot of
different ailments but I think with all
things and this is a stance that I've
kind of like really come to accept over
the last few years with all things that
affect the mind they affect everyone
slightly differently absolutely yeah
Alex you want to say I suspect you know
there were people who said don't go on
with Joe he's just gonna you know he's
gonna try to eat you alive and and
especially they'll be it'll be two on
one I told them the truth first of all I
I'll go on with anybody and I am glad
you had me on or you're having me on
because uh you know Bill Moore he won't
have me on he's afraid to talk to me
about this why well he said well he you
know he told the or his people told the
Simon & Schuster PR people we just don't
want to have him on and an NPR had a
national NPR show had an interview
scheduled with me an hour-long segment
and they cancelled it they said they
said we don't believe in the conclusions
of the book okay you don't believe in
the conclusions in the book have me on
ask me anything you know and that's why
I'm so happy that you're not afraid to
have me on that we can have a
conversation that we can have a
conversation
come at me with any question you want
about the science um
I mean I'll say right off the top I
don't think marijuana is medicine it has
a few medical uses that have been you
know CBD has been shown to reduce
seizures and kid
that's great THC has been shown to
reduce the nausea associated with
chemotherapy that's nice but for the
most part people use THC and cannabis as
recreational intoxicants they use them
to get high the same when they use
alcohol the same way they use other
drugs and the sooner we we accept that
reality the better off we'll all be that
this is a drug and it has risks and
benefits and the risks and benefits are
different than alcohol they're different
than other drugs but I don't think if
you look sort of on a population level
basis they're less than alcohol I don't
think you can even say that I don't I
really strongly disagree with that and I
mean you just have to look at the death
rate right you know more people die from
alcohol than you know almost all drugs
combined but when we're looking at
cannabis there's zero deaths attributed
to the use of cannabis itself sure you
could say you know someone could use
cannabis and jump off a cliff or
something like that but we're talking
about the lethal dose you cannot die
from cannabis and just based upon that
alone it makes it much much safer than
alcohol did you say that if that is the
case so ok so that's a really good
question
the normal number that's used for US
deaths from alcohol is about ninety
thousand now about thirty to forty
thousand of those deaths are deaths from
the physical effects of alcohol right
essentially liver damage either chronic
liver damage you get cirrhosis you die
in some cases you can drink so much that
you kill yourself in a night so that's
about thirty to forty thousand deaths
the other deaths are generally
associated with alcohol meaning somebody
drank exactly violence suicide car
accidents and all those numbers are
basically based on studies from the 90s
and before where you know people looked
at traffic accidents and there were a
certain number of those accidents where
people had a blood alcohol content of
higher than 0.1 they said okay that's an
alcohol associated death that's a fine
way to count as far as I'm concerned
nobody has ever done that count for
cannabis and I can tell you based on on
the tox screens that I've seen from
Colorado where people had cannabis in
their blood and committed suicide
people liked cannabis in their art I
should say THC in their blood
and got into fatal confrontations with
police officers if if if and when we do
this number for cannabis which we need
to do as soon as possible the numbers
gonna be a lot higher than zero I
suspect it will be in the 10 to 20,000
range we won't know till we actually do
it okay but let's let's eliminate let's
go even over the alcohol
let's eliminate all things like violence
and let's eliminate suicide and let's
assume those people would have committed
violence and committed suicide without
it you're still looking at a giant
number of people who drink themselves to
death thousands and thousands and
thousands of people every year versus
zero with marijuana and you're aware I'm
sure that correlation does not equal
causation and that especially in a place
like Colorado were you dealing with
cannabis something that stays in the
system for many many weeks if you're
testing people and they test positive
for marijuana and they wind up
committing suicide or they wind up
committing violence they don't even
necessarily have to have been under the
influence of it well as you know there's
when you test the blood you can test the
both the active metabolite and the
inactive metabolite THC so so the tests
when you do a blood test on somebody
who's you know who's committed suicide
it's sophisticated enough to tease that
out so there's a lot of people who have
the active metabolite in their blood I
agree alcohol is a physically toxic
substance cannabis is a neurotoxin for a
lot of people but in addition to you
know the death there's also just
morbidity that that's associated with
alcohol I mean it ruins people's lives
that ruins marriages it leads to weight
gain it leads to a lot of metabolic
disease I think you I say that for some
people with marijuana too I think you
could say some people especially weight
gain that some people smoke a lot of pot
and they get lazy and they start eating
cheetos all day and and you can also say
that with some people you know the
waking bakers that you know seem to be
wasting their lives away and that's like
the stereotypical negative con you know
when you're we talking about a negative
description of a marijuana user it's the
wake-and-bake all right the person who's
talking all the time you could
absolutely say that could ruin
relationships you could absolutely say
that would ruin your job yeah you could
but again to you know we're using the
term marijuana and really we should be
using THC or high THC when we're saying
that okay because you know people who
use
I see VD every day as we know or most
people listing this property BD is
non-psychoactive yes not get you high
super benefit you know that can be
extremely beneficial for you know a
variety of different disorders that
people have yeah so you know we need to
be careful at using cannabis versus
using you know THC because the THC that
can do that and to your point you know
but you know you say like your th so you
can cause the munchies and of course
that's you know not good for someone who
doesn't want to gain weight and just you
know so people know the the way that it
does do that is when THC attaches to the
cb1 receptor you get an increase in
hormone called ghrelin and ghrelin can
actually induce hunger and that's why
people get get the munchies but you know
that it's not necessarily a bad thing if
you're someone who has cancer for if
you're someone you know who's wasting
away from from from a terrible illness
you know so sometimes you know having
having the munchies is is definitely a
good thing and i know you know a lot of
people have said to me you know it's not
available so you should probably you
know not talk about as much but there is
another cannabinoid called th cv so you
know there's there's over 100
cannabinoids in cannabis cncd are only
two of them you know those are the main
ones that people know about so THC v has
been shown to actually reduce appetite
so if we can get that out there in the
market you know like we have with with
CBD then we can almost still eliminate
or potentially you know substantially
reduce the problem that people have with
with with THC by using it with THC v
doctor I have a question for you when
people come into your practice did they
do they want high CBD products or did
they want to get intoxicated and you
know Canada it's flat zero sure of
course
yeah so it's like if they don't need to
go to him to get in time right so people
so you're seeing a population that is
genuinely interested in the health
benefits absolutely because I mean if
and I mean I'm glad that that that's
legalized in Canada because it does make
my job a little bit easier because being
like basically everyone who's coming to
me now I know that they want to use it
medically because if they want to use it
recreationally I mean they just go to
the store right kind of a pain to you
know get in to see me come in and have
the discussion all that type of stuff so
you know the people who see me now
you know they're all using it medically
and then you know to answer your
question though Alyx almost all my
patients as soon as they come in they
say I don't want to get high I don't
want to get high like that's almost what
everyone says so you know I think the
word is out there that you know CBD is
non psychoactive and it doesn't get you
high and I think that a lot of people
are really interested in that compound
and you know if if if the people didn't
have the the success that they've had
over the past few years you know it
wouldn't be as popular as it is so you
know I think that you know we do need to
look at the scientific evidence but we
do need to listen to others and the
antidotal evidence is you know something
that would that we should consider
because it is so strong Alex let me ask
you this why don't you consider it
medicine when it has proven medical
benefits well it obviously can be
medicine for these narrow things that
the FDA has approved it for but as you
know I'm sure when people talk about it
as medicine when the the the the the
ballot initiatives that have gotten it
approved as medicine have really
essentially deceived voters about the
process right so you go to a you you go
to a pot doctor you get an authorization
that authorization essentially enables
you to buy as much cannabis as you want
for the next year most of the time in
reality these doctors are not giving you
a real medical examination they're
saying to you hey do you have pain do
you have anxiety here's your
authorization I don't think you should
speak for every single doctor we don't
do that at my clinic and I know that you
know a lot of the clinics in Canada
anyway we definitely do not do that and
you know we provide a lot of education
at my clinic and there's other clinics
in Canada that also provide and and I
and I imagine there's a spectrum but in
the US this was a second and I spoke to
advocates for my book I spoke to Rob
Campea who you know who ran the
Marijuana Policy Project for a long time
for the book and he and he acknowledged
you know the advocates knew that this
was a backdoor route to legalization
yeah I used to joke around about it yeah
my doctor said whadya tea pot I said I
get headaches he said when you get
headaches I said whenever I think about
the fact that pots of legal prescription
let's be honest about I'm not really
look I say in the book at the end I
don't think this should be this
substance should be legal I have favored
decriminalization which sort of jumping
ahead here but if it's gonna be legal
I'd rather have it be legal for
recreational use I'd rather that we
don't pretend that THC high cannabis is
a medicine and I'd rather separate it
but yeah why he's saying don't pretend
because there's many medicines that have
horrific side of them the medicine THC
in regards to children's autism is
pretty significant and well-documented
the epilepsy autism those are two huge
things that happen with children that
they've been shown to severely mitigate
with with edible marijuana so I have to
push back on you a little bit CBD has
been shown to reduce seizures in
children with epilepsy it's it's okay
they may be anecdotal but I have a good
friend who has a child who he uses it on
and he showed it mean it's been a
game-changer yeah I mean let's just let
me in turn off for sex like I had a
patient four or five years ago and she
was 20 years old she couldn't drive a
car because she had seizures right so
you can imagine being 20 years old not
being able to drive a car all your
friends are driving around so she uses a
little bit of CBD not even every day
she's never had a seizure saying she's
able to drive her car but this is we're
talking about CBD he's talking about THC
so and so you're talking about you're
talking about a case okay and and I'm
not saying that your friend's situation
didn't happen I'm not saying it's not
real what I'm saying is that the reason
we have clinical trials is because
science the way you know whether a
medicine works or not whether a chemical
compound works whatever that compound is
the best way to know is you give it to
two groups of you give you give the real
medicine to one group of people and you
give a placebo to the other group and
you see the changes in those two groups
over time and you find out whether or
not your theory about whether this works
on a population level basis is real or
not that's how that is at the core of
medical science and we've basically
thrown that rule out for THC well that's
not entirely correct you do know that
there's were studies that were run
in the Nixon administration that showed
the efficacy of marijuana and the safety
of it and those were all squashed and
you also I'm sure you you know like when
we're talking about marijuana you're
talking about something that's federally
illegal it's not something that's Eagle
that's easy to run these FDA studies on
yes and I do that and I say the in the
book I think we should drop that I think
anybody who's got a legitimate interest
in researching either THC or canvas or
any of the compounds for a for a medical
condition let them run phase 1 phase 2
phase 3 trust let's see if this if this
can if this plant is good for these
things I think that's a great idea but
still why are you saying that you don't
think it is medicine when all these
people find benefit in it so so do you
think they're getting it from just the
CBD the minimal amount of CBD in in
marijuana no I think that again there
there's been a lot of research done on
THC and cannabis to see whether or not
those whether THC is a compound and
whether smoked cannabis can treat these
conditions and for the most part the
studies have been negative the again
there's negative in what way meaning
they haven't shown any actual like can
you state aside these studies there I
mention them in my book okay well what
what were the conclusions these studies
when you're saying that they're not
positive that they again that they
didn't work that the drug did not work
on what on cancer on Alzheimer's disease
on irritable bowel syndrome on also
Alec's mean you know you're thrown a few
different things out there and you know
I appreciate the fact that we can't be
going around you know saying things like
you know cannabis cures cancer right but
you know I you know and I've done videos
and this even like recently stating that
but if you look at the research I mean
specifically if you look at specific
cancers there are studies that have
shown that GHC and CBD can help like
it's safe we're talking about breast
cancer and I did a video on this
recently you know if you are her2
positive and you use cheat seeing CBD it
can in fact reduce tumor size and it can
reduce tumor growth now if you have what
I'm sorry client and what does that mean
a chi what is a subset of breast cancer
right so there's there's different types
of breast cancer and that's just one
subset of breast cancer so there are
other breast cancer
which do not express cannabinoid
receptors and you know I've seen one
study at least again it's only one study
that showed that when they gave TC and
that animal model and actually caused a
proliferation of of tumors so it
worsened them so you know I do agree
with you Alex in the fact that you know
we have to be careful about using you
know terms like that but that just
doesn't mean that we can't say that
cannabis is no good for cancer at all
and I mean even in the National
Academies of science and engineering
report you know they said that cancer
was was great for chemotherapy induced
nausea and vomiting right so you know
it's definitely a really good you know
medicine for you know a lot of different
things and and when we're talking about
GHC you know i allure of course and we
need to be careful about about THC but
it definitely is still a medicine and
you know to your point with regards to
you know it's not being a medicine safe
or something like PTSD you know I come
from it from a clinicians point of view
so I'm not a researcher so I need to
make sure that my patients are getting
better it's very frustrating for me
just to say to someone oh there's
nothing I can do for you there's nothing
I can do for it you know so and I
understand that you know doing something
sometimes it's not going to be
beneficial just because you're doing
something you have to do something that
actually works but you know we do have
epidemiological studies and we have
other studies or the shown that you know
when when patients are given cannabis it
can reduce their symptoms of PTSD
there's also another study you know I
don't use this drug too often call it
called NAB alone so NAB alone is just
pure THC nav alone was shown to reduce
nightmares and people who have PTSD so
you know it's just saying just so just
because THC a psychoactive doesn't mean
that it's not a medicine and just to
keep on the topic of of PTSD in addition
to that we've identified mechanisms of
action I know I know there's one study I
think mat Hill was on the was one of the
authors of that study and he noted that
in people who have PTSD there's an over
50% decrease in in levels of inanimate
so an image is a naturally-occurring
yeah which is which is naturally
occurring tank in the canal but it
correct
so you can get that through through
exercise which is one excellent way to
do it you know and that's part of the
the high that you get when after you
exercise but the other way you can get
is by using cannabis so when she
attaches those cb1 receptors you can get
a release of an and amide and it's
cannabidiol can actually increase in an
amide and by another mechanism of action
as well so you know there's different
ways where we can you know raise a level
of deficiency so you know to me as a
clinician you know if I have someone who
is not doing very well you know they've
been on a bunch of different medications
I've identified that you know they have
PTSD we have mechanisms of action we
have studies and then again to you know
don't discount my clinical experience
right I've been working for over five
years you know just with just with
cannabis I mean I do other medicines I
use prescribe other medicines as well
but I've been doing Kandice medicine for
over five years
and you know there's a lot that that
I've learned right so as much as I've
learned you know through reading studies
and if you're going to conferences and
things like that you know for sure that
the the best resource as a clinician is
is to learn from your patients and and
to hear what your patients tell me and
you know the the things that my patients
tell me is that THC is really effective
for the sleep at night and a lot of my
patients especially my veteran patients
have done really really well with that
and just just one further point too you
know there was I know it was 2015 I
believe it was there was a a
meta-analysis done I can pull it up if
we need to that indicated that you know
a lot of medicines that are being used
now for PTSD are just simply ineffective
and the other thing too is that there's
never been a medicine made specifically
for PTSD so all the medicines that
people are using or for anxiety or
they're for depression or they're for
insomnia at the frozen earth or for
something else you know but when we look
at like like a study that says people
with PTSD have a lower level of an and
imide and then if you can increase that
a level of an animai you know that's a
good way to treat someone it doesn't
matter whether it's a vitamin whether
it's a hormone if long as you are
correcting a deficiency you're generally
going to get excellent clinical results
so
let me let me sort of try to frame this
a different way alcohol reduces blood
pressure ok alcohol in you know
generally tends to reduce cardiovascular
events for people and during Prohibition
you could actually get a doctor's note
for alcohol as a medicine but alcohol is
not a medicine okay it's a recreational
intoxicant it has some positive
biological qualities and some negative
biological qualities and you know there
was an argument I think in 10 to 20
years ago should we recommend that
people drink moderately one to two
drinks a day and I think for the most
part the medical profession has come
down on the side saying let's not do
that
there's too many noncardiac negative
side effects with alcohol just on the
north of Alex in Canada right now I know
the safe alcohol drinking guidelines are
14 drinks 50 men 29 drinks a week for
women so you know two a day over men
one and a half for women so you're
saying okay like there's we don't see
huge negative consequences at that level
okay that's that's fine like that's a
totally reasonable way to think about
alcohol but what we're not saying to
people is this is a medicine and I think
that's where the confusion around really
around high THC cannabis lies and I and
again I don't mean to say that your
friend's child is not benefiting I if
you say he or she's benefiting I believe
you what I'm saying is that that's not
good enough for science we need
randomized controlled trials and when
those trials have been done and a lot of
them have been done Jo a lot of them
have been done they've almost
unequivocally shown that cannabis
doesn't work as a medicine the only
actual place where beyond these sort of
very limited conditions like
chemotherapy associated nausea which
obviously is terrible for people who
have it but isn't you know isn't that
common fortunately um cannabis has been
shown to work as a pain reliever right
probably for the same reasons that
alcohol works as a pain reliever deserve
dulls your awareness of your pain but
even in that study or in those even in
those studies they're mostly done
against placebo not against opioids or
against NSAIDs like ibuprofen and there
was a very big study for cannabis use in
chronic
paying over a multi-year period in
Australia that came out last year that
showed that people who used cannabis had
a had more pain and used more opiates at
the end of four years than people who
didn't so that so I we're almost argue
about what medicine is yeah that study
though had a lot of flaws in it and the
other thing is that you need to look at
someone who is already using cannabis
versus someone who is just using opioids
so if someone is just using opioids and
they want to come off cannabis you know
there's multiple yeah sorry sorry come
off of opiates with cannabis you know
multiple studies have shown that that
that can be effective and that's not was
what was done in the Australian study
that that you refer right it's a more
naturalistic approach right and and also
to you know they they didn't have access
to medical marijuana during that whole
during the whole time right so those
were all self-reported and they were
getting it from you know recreational
sources they weren't getting it from
that's a big that's a big distinction
though Alyx like they weren't getting it
from a doctor who prescribed it two of
them they were there this was a
self-reported study and people are
getting cannabis that you know they
didn't really know what they were
getting it wasn't they weren't given any
information from a doctor and that's why
it's a medicine Alex because you can
tell someone you can tell a patient to
take you know a certain amount of CBD
every single day and when you take a
certain amount every single day it can
reduce your symptoms and sometimes you
need to increase that and sometimes you
need to decrease that thing we should do
that with all medicines we should be
really clear about the distinction
though between CBD and marijuana I mean
we're really talking about the
psychoactive version of it I mean this
is where what you're saying it's
negative yeah you're not you're not
really arguing that and I think you know
dr. Hart is talking about he's talking
about using this as a medicine certainly
using the CVD he's titrating his
patients he's monitoring them he's not
writing them an authorization and saying
come back in a year when it when it's up
he's he's he's being a physician and you
know and I think to the extent that
marijuana is medicine we want people
like him so you admit it's medicine no
no no I don't admit that but you just
said that I don't think I just said that
I said to the extent I'm trying to have
I'll stop doing that but you know I
think you said something else that was
really interesting to me and this came
up in the book - so you're a clinician
you see sick people and it was funny my
wife's a doctor - she's a psychiatrist
that's how I sort of got him this but my
wife is a forensic psychiatrist less
than a clinician these days her job is
to evaluate people not so much to treat
people your job is to treat people you
see sick people you want to help them
feel better and you don't want to tell
them there's nothing I can do for you
there's nothing there's there's no hope
for your pain there's no hope for your
PTSD you want to help them and I totally
get that
but if you're an epidemiologist or a
researcher who's who's trying to guide
the you know the the the views and the
medical practice of hundreds of
thousands of doctors that's not good
enough so you need to step back and I
think I think you know this this
epidemiologist and in Britain who I
talked to he said to me he said you know
I try not to draw conclusions because so
often when I try to draw them I'm wrong
yeah and we need to be you know careful
about that right and and Alex you know
you know one thing that was mentioned in
your book you know is that you know you
officers you often cited the National
Academies of science and engineering
right but you know ziva Cooper you know
she's a member of that committee I mean
she put out on on her Twitter I mean you
can go to it it's from January 9th of
2019 she says in response in the recent
New York Times editorial on cannabis and
as a committee member which came that
which by the way that context were came
from right but this is a someone you
cited no I didn't cite her excited to
Kate you say that you cited that the
report and she's a member of that of
that okay so she said in response to the
recent Newark Times editorial on canvas
as a committee member on nasan which is
that committee and cannabinoids report
we did not conclude that cannabis causes
schizophrenia then the drug Alliance
policy also said the report and did not
reach that conclusion so you know those
are pretty too authoritative you know
sources that are saying that you know in
your book you didn't cite the research
properly right and then also they're
saying that you left a lot out right
they said that they have found an
association between marijuana use and
improved cognitive outcomes and
individuals with psychotic disorders
that's straight from the same report and
you know you failed to mention that
right so I think that you know when
we're writing books or when we're giving
out information you want to do it from a
balanced approach and you don't want to
just select you know the small amount of
material that's just going to support
your study you know we want to be
truthful here you know Joe's show has
always been very truthful I mean Joe
said right right at the beginning he
doesn't think that that the cannabis is
perfect for everyone and I don't think
that either and in Canada you know we
have really strict guidelines to follow
you know basically no one prescribes
cheap seed anyone under the age of of 25
and you know all the conferences and
stuff that I go to you know we don't
really have too many discussions about
that like the doctors don't really have
many you know much of a backlash about
that so why is a distinction at age of
25 or they decide that age so 25
basically is when you're your friend oh
yeah it's fully developed and when you
do look at the studies that do show you
know an association between between
cannabis and psychosis it's almost all
in adolescents you know I think that
Alex only has one study and is in its
book that shows an extremely weak
correlation between an adult using
cannabis and then developing any type of
mental illness later so you know 25 is a
it's a good age but it's definitely a
you know kind of a conservative ish ish
age but you know it's it's something
that that we follow and I think that you
know we've done well with that in Canada
so Alex why did you leave those
conclusions oh I need to push back here
okay so the National Academy of Medicine
report was drawn up by committee of 16
researchers ziva Cooper is the one who's
publicly said the report said this but I
think that we should have emphasized
that it also said this okay what I what
I wrote in that New York Times op-ed
I wrote in the book is the plain
language of the report and the plain
language is this cannabis use is
associated with a risk of developing
schizophrenia and other psychoses the
higher the use the greater the risk I
may have a word or two wrong and that
because I'm doing it from memory but
that's what it said and by the way the
committee was very clear they separated
depression they said there we don't see
as nearly as high risk for depression as
psychosis even though by the way today
just today JAMA psychiatry the Journal
of the American Medical Association
Psychiatry put out a meta-analysis
showing that cannabis is associated with
depression and suicidal thinking and
actually suicide attempts at a three and
a half to one rate this is this
literally was released today but - but
to go back Ziva is one of 16 members of
that committee so if you're gonna talk
up if you're gonna say that I miss
quoted the report which I didn't I
quoted in entirely accurately you need
to say well why aren't the other 15
members of that committee saying that I
miss quoted why is one person who works
for the cannabis research initiative at
UCLA which takes money from cannabis
investors and users she's the one who
said that I miss quoted it maybe she
maybe we should ask why the other
members of the committee are not
speaking out against my book well I
think that she was just one of the 16
members that that came out but you know
you can't really expect all the other
members to potentially you know come out
with that why not
well some people did something wrong if
I'm excluded to them well some people
will and some people won't you know some
people have you know the personality
some people have the platform like you
know Ziva has a bunch of followers on
our Twitter people know who she is you
know a lot of people who do research
actually are not into social media at
all like I don't think you were at all
before you you had your book were you
yeah okay yes so so urine into social
media at all so you know I don't think
that most people on that committee are
are into social media you know Ziva just
just happens to be and you know I even
spoke to Ziva on the phone about this
and you know and and she said that yeah
you know I I don't that she agrees with
everything that was in the report but
she doesn't agree with your conclusions
and to go back ones are
quoted from the report but you're only
quoting there but you're only quoting
the parts that that site or sorry that
back your your opinions you're not
quoting the entire part like you left
like why did you leave out the part that
said they have found an association
between marijuana use and improved
cognitive outcomes and individuals with
psychotic disorders right so you're
leaving out that part so why'd you leave
out that part if you can find me a
psychiatrist who thinks that it's a good
idea for somebody with an active psyche
okay it's ordered why'd you leave out
that part well my book presents it makes
a case right it makes a case that this
is a big issue that we have not heard
about at all and the reasons that we
haven't heard about it have a lot to do
with the advocacy community and the way
they've presented this data for 25 years
I wrote a book that is trying to break
through a lot of noise so but still like
to get a balanced approach did you
decide that you would say only going to
write about things that confirm your the
belief that you held when you were
writing this and what you were trying to
push in the title of the book and then
in the conclusion of the book I think
that's a really great question I say in
the introduction of the book this book
is not balanced okay there's not a lot
of evidence in there if you if you want
to read about how indica and sativa
strains are different and right you know
you're not gonna read that in this book
this it but I will also I also want to
say this I didn't come at this and I say
this in the introduction in the book too
as an anti cannabis Crusader in fact
when my wife said to me as she said to
me over and over again in 20 you know 14
and 15 and 16 these are the cases that
I'm seeing these are the terrible things
that people are doing after cannabis use
I sort of said to her at first of all
why do I always have to here but this is
the dinner table but but more
importantly you know why why is it that
maybe these people were using other
drugs maybe maybe you're seeing a slice
of the population that it's not
representative why is it that I should
believe this this sounds like reefer
madness to me and you know ultimately my
wife who's the one who went it you know
she was actually as I was talking to dr.
Hart about this she grew up in
Newfoundland - she went to the Memorial
University of Newfoundland medical
school and she went to Harvard and
Columbia for her postgraduate training
you know eventually she got tired of me
yapping back at her and she said why she
go read the studies yourself and it was
that that led me to read to write this
book because when I read the studies I
could not believe the strength of the
evidence Jo but you still even saying
that you you're still seeing positive
results that you're you're excluding
okay there's there's this one there's
this one Centon that means not just one
sense but but there are a few sentences
about how it may be that cannabis helps
people's positive it helps it helps
cognition in people with psychosis maybe
maybe not
wouldn't that qualify as medicine not if
it no it wouldn't be approved as
medicine if it's causing they have other
psychotic episodes but if these people
have psychotic breaks and improves
cognitive function and people with
psychotic breaks so so it wouldn't that
be something that you would prescribe
does no one know again you need to think
about how the FDA is looking at medicine
oh I understand the FDA's position sure
but I mean I'm looking at it as medicine
I mean if we could prove this through
Studies and through some sort of
clinical trials if it is improving your
IQ two points on a test it is I'm not
I'm it's making you floridly psychotic
you're not that's not medicine well it's
not necessarily at the same time one of
the things that I read about
schizophrenia was that there's people
were trying to make correlation between
marijuana use and schizophrenia but the
problem with that correlation and what I
read and maybe you could help me on this
yeah was that it's the exact same number
that you find the general population is
essentially 1% of the general population
has schizophrenia which is one out of a
hundred people and when you have
marijuana users you see is essentially
that same number mirrored and so they're
saying a small no that's not true hold
on but listen in a small number of
people what they were saying essentially
in what I read was that marijuana use
was associated with the onset of
schizophrenia but they were disputing
this in this study because they were
saying but because that's
is mirrored in the general population
again correlation does not equal
causation rather I think you gotta tell
them that's not true
tell me truly what that means so
traditionally yes when you look at the
stats you'll see that you know the
people who use cannabis versus the
people who don't use cannabis have very
similar rates but you know getting to
the exact rates you know so in the u.s.
they say that the range if for
schizophrenia is between 0.25 to 0.6 4%
globally they say it's 0.33 to 0.75
percent so you know right there it's you
know apparently lower in the US and the
u.s. is is has the highest percentage of
cannabis consumption in the world and
the u.s. also has a lot of people that
are using high potency THC so you know I
think that you know we really need to be
be careful about throwing out you know
stats like that because you know when
you do look at the stats that we have it
shows that even though you know the kick
that there's a lot of cannabis use in
the United States
schizophrenia rates have remained the
same so I have to push back really hard
this is one of the great myths of
legalization okay um
no one knows what the schizophrenia or
psychosis rate in the is in the US right
because a lot of people aren't treated
people aren't treated people are get
different diagnoses at different times
and we have we have bad health care in
this country and we have a lot of
protections around mental health in fact
in 2017 the National Institutes of
mental health suddenly changed its
estimate for the percentage of people
with schizophrenia in the u.s. from 1.1
percent to 0.3 percent they did it with
no public notice and then this
researcher said hey this is a miracle
they just cured 2 million people with
schizophrenia and the and then in
response to that the director of the NIH
said well we actually don't know how
many people have schizophrenia in the
United States nobody knows nobody knows
if the rate is increasing nobody knows
if it's decreasing the only countries
where they can count noses on this with
any accuracy are in northern Europe
because they have good health care
because I have slightly you know less
protections around our individual
privacy and mental health privacy and so
they are able to count cases and in
Denmark and Finland which are which are
the two places where they've actually
done this research in the last 20
years they've shown increasing rates of
schizophrenia between about 1995 and
about 2010 and that goes side-by-side
with increasing rates of cannabis use in
the 90s so the people who are saying
that there's no evidence of population
wide increases in psychosis are just
wrong that's possible there's other
friends oh absolutely
environmental factors is a bunch of
other different things let me let me sit
there on this we absolutely don't have
the evidence at this point to say that
cannabis use in the u.s. is causing a
population level increase in psychosis
and schizophrenia which are by the way
those are sort of different illnesses
and we can we can talk about that too
so we don't have the evidence to say
there's a definite increase but what I'm
saying is that what you have been told
that there is no increase in
schizophrenia or psychosis rates in the
US that's we don't know if that's true
or not we just let me ask you this there
has been proven that there's an increase
in marijuana use is that correct correct
how when when did the increase begin and
how what how what percentage increase so
there was a there was an increase in the
90s an increase in use and in potency
you sort of bottom doubt around 1991 and
then there was sort of a flat bottomed
out mean it has an increase in tonight
you 54 cent since 92 it's a lot letting
you expect a corresponding increase in
schizophrenia if there was any sort of
correlation so hold on let me just let
me walk you through okay it bottomed out
in the early 90s okay I increased again
increased in the 90s flattened out
between about 2000 2006 and since then
has been going up again especially in
let's say the last three four years and
the other thing is that potency in the
last 15 years has gone way up I think
anybody would dispute that but okay it's
a friend a gun so what I'm saying to you
is we don't know
there is evidence there is there is now
evidence on a population level basis in
those other countries that schizophrenia
and psychosis has gone up and there's
for the first time in 2017 there's data
showing that serious mental illness
which is not the same as psychosis or
schizophrenia in the u.s. doubled
between 2008 and 2017 in the and the in
people aged 18 to 25 and those are the
people who are most likely to be using
so for
the first time there's actually evidence
of what you're talking about which is a
population wide increase now again I'm
not gonna say can I get you to clarify
it should say serious mental health
serious mental illness so this was
defined there's a study called the
national survey on drug use and health
it's done every year covers 70,000
people federal government funds it it
sort of the best data source we have on
all this stuff
it showed that and they're not counting
cases either no but let me just be as
clear as I can on this nobody's counting
schizophrenia cases on a national or
even state level because in the US but
you say to people did you have
depression so bad that you couldn't get
out of bed
did you you know were you hospitalized
this year for psycho for for any
inpatient psychiatric reason and and if
you look at those numbers in 2008 three
point seven percent remember it may be
three point eight percent of Americans
18 to 25 reported at least one symptom
so they were categorized as having
serious mental illness that year in 2017
that number was seven point five percent
so that's a doubling so again I am NOT
going to say that proves that the
increase in cannabis use has caused this
this population some things but
something bad has happened and if you
look at kids 12 to 17 interestingly they
over that time period didn't have a big
increase in cannabis use in general
teenagers are actually are pretty
healthy now although Jul and vaping may
be undoing that and those kids didn't
have a population level increase in
serious mental illness can I stop you
for a second there because there's other
factors one of the big one is you've all
know a herati has a great book 21
lessons for the 21st century I really I
read that it's great and one of the
things they talk about is the onset of
social media Jonathan Haidt talked about
that as well and that the onset of
social media is actually more hate and
then you Vaughn Harada but the Jonathan
Haidt talks about it with young people
yeah that's a huge American mind yeah I
think that social media and the
pressures of social media have led an
incredible amount of young people to
serious mental distress
you know serious anxiety serious
depression and suicide amongst young
girls has increased some 50 percent
according to hate over the period of
2007 - I think 2000 and whenever his
book was written and I think they're
directly correlating that to the
pressures of social media and to you
know anonymous online bullying and all
these different factors that are
affecting kids yeah so I think that that
could be considered a far more
significant new form of distress to
children and young people
then even marijuana I think it does it
twofold because I think that you know
what makes people really depressed maybe
more so than than anxious but definitely
both is that when you compare yourself
to someone else
and you know you know people you know
obviously that we've done that you know
all all humans have done that you know
since history began but now everything
is online you can compare your life to
everyone and if people are doing all the
time and even worse than that and you
know we should talk about this too is
that the income gap is getting is
getting water so it's like people's
lives not only are they getting you know
better than other people's lives but
it's but it now it's on it's on display
so everyone can see it whereas before
you know maybe what you wouldn't have
seen it because it wasn't on social
media but now it's on social media so
you have this huge income gap that just
keeps getting bigger and bigger and
bigger and then you have people going
going on social media and they're
comparing themselves and you're
absolutely right especially in that in
that age population mean people under
under the age of 30 you know they're
definitely you know they're being
bullied online like I see every day in
my office like literally every day
people are being bullied online and
that's you know something that I never
had you know to deal with growing up
yeah and you know a lot of kids do have
to have to deal with that just one more
note - on the since Colorado has has has
legalized cannabis is this important for
for this this is the subject miss topic
they've actually seen marijuana rates
decrease so it's important for people to
know that you know no no no no they've
decided tnehews or overall use overall
has gone up tnews is flat
overall uses up okay yeah I'm talking
about teen you've got that'll got that's
the category that were talking about
under under 30
right so teen use you know what classify
is part of that category so you know in
Colorado we have seen a decrease do you
think that's because of the lack of
either because it's not illegal it's not
as exciting to them part of it for sure
you know and I mean part of it is like
one worry I had you know I haven't
looked into the statistics yet it was
you know when when you're growing up and
when you're in high school you know if
you want to be part of the you know cool
crowd so to say what you know you
usually drink or you smoke pot you know
that's what so people do I hope that
that doesn't change because pot seeing
as medicine I hope that you know people
don't you don't move on to or do
something you know harsher because they
don't see pot as cool anymore right
because it's legal yeah so I got a
pushback on the whole thing please so
everything you say about social media is
down you know it sort of intuitively
sounds correct right the problem is the
data doesn't support this at all the
data shows that teenagers another 12 to
17 those kids are healthier than they
were ten or twenty or thirty years ago
they drink less they smoke less they
have sex later that fewer abortions they
are healthier okay okay and their mental
health doesn't seem to have changed that
much based on the NSDUH data okay the
data shows a big change in kids 18 to 25
they go to college
something goes wrong for a lot of those
kids at least in the last few years now
but wait a minute even when you're
talking about suicide rates suicide
rates are there especially with young
girls who are apparently more affected
by social media they have gone up
significantly since the rise of social
media that is the big factor people for
almost a second more so than cannabis
use and then that's a fact so so you're
so you're talking about a tiny tiny
number the people who know no it's not a
tiny number it's a fifty percent
increase of people that commit suicide
they're young girls the people who
commit suicide in the United States are
middle-aged white men wait a minute
you're discounting these young girls
that are committing suicide to fit your
statistics or
fit your conclusions no what I'm saying
is that's a tiny tiny number but it's
it's a 50% increase is not a tiny amount
this is something we can look up well
let's find out what the numbers are like
because like when Jonathan hate was on
the podcast and he discussed it I mean
he showed this chart and it's an
alarming increase directly correlating
with the increase in use of social media
sure but you push back against that it
seems to be a factor what what I'm when
I'm pushing back against is the idea
that kids 12 to 17 generally are less
healthy than they were 10 or 20 years
ago ones saying they're less healthy you
just said they're more healthy yeah I'm
saying they're more healthy we're saying
that mental health has nothing to do
with cardiovascular to use drugs they're
less likely to have sex but it's more
likely to commit suicide that is a tiny
tiny number what are you talking about
if it's 50 percent increase that's a
huge difference we should look up the
number if we're gonna if we're going to
look Jonathan hates work is like very
well-respected what I'm saying to you is
that there's a clear increase in
psychological distress in kids and young
adults 18 to 25 okay there's a clear
increase and those are the people who
are most likely to be using cannabis
research the people that are most likely
on social media as well sure and that's
the stressful period 17 you should live
in at home like 18 to 25 then you got to
go to university you got a deal or seize
the moment you concede that and I've
said in the beginning the program that I
think the marijuana with some people is
not beneficial and in fact could be
negative but I don't understand why
you're not willing to admit that social
media has a significant and
unprecedented impact on young people
that we've never seen before I would
totally agree with it but I don't think
that you can say based on the population
level data that the impact is all
negative it may be listen maybe who's
saying that the impact is all negative
what we're saying is is a 50% increase
in suicide with young girls right but
that's Hugh let me give me an example
when you were 15 or I was 15
maybe you got really drunk right and
wound up in a bathtub like maybe kids
today are less likely to do that because
of social media because they know it's
gonna be on Instagram forever I don't
think that's true I don't think that's
proven and
there's anything that would point to
that well what I can tell you is proven
is that kids today I'm talking about
teens 12 to 17 have less psychological
distress by all these measures I'm
talking about their actual behaviors are
better or a better or worse that's a
moral judgment but they're healthier
than they were ten or twenty or thirty
years ago they're less likely to have
sex they're less when they're 14 which I
think must be was a good thing they're
less likely to be drinking they're less
likely to be smoking those are good
things well less likely to be drinking
less likely to be smoking less likely to
have sex does not correlate to positive
mental outlook and less suicide well yes
there's I agree there we look let's look
at the numbers but depression and
suicide are the very difficult things to
measure right depression it's a hard
number depression is look at this spike
the bottom number is oh okay I mean this
is what I'm saying
the death rate first of all this is this
is okay the death rate for girls aged 15
to 19 is four per 100,000 jokes of 40
it's at a 40-year high right so I mean
you'd be hard-put to say that's a huge
spike it was three per hundred thousand
in 1975 and it's a little bit over four
in 2015 that's not that's one case per
100,000 girls yeah I don't know what I
don't know what the actual facts are I'm
looking at this right now suicide rates
for teens 15 and 19 years this is
something that we'd have to study sure
people have this discussion it's spiked
for boys in the 1990s yeah fuck is that
about 95 what enormous if you put
middle-aged men on this turret you'd
have to you'd have to blow out the
ceiling like people the suicide crisis
is unfortunately a crisis of age okay I
would agree with that I think well we
actually talked about that yesterday
with Andrew yang that suicide amongst
men in their 50s and then they start to
feel useless yeah yeah and especially if
they lose their jobs but what Jonathan
Haidt is pointing to is a direct
correlation between social media use
depression and suicide amongst young
girls thank you for finding what is it
this is the article it's from his
from this suicide rate 14 girls the
highest it's been in 40 years is social
media to blame right so okay
new data prevented released Thursday by
the Atlanta based Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention suicide rates
amongst 15 to 19 year old girls doubled
between 2007 and 2015
reaching a 40-year high I would say
that's significant again I would and and
it's obviously a terrible thing when
anybody commits about it but we're
talking about 2 per 100,000 I understand
it's it's 5 well what for 2 to 4 okay
that means for every 100,000 American
girls in 2015 5 committed suicide that's
not a very high number but I mean that's
also someone who's pushed to the extreme
taking their life how many girls are
experiencing severe depression but don't
commit suicide that's the real factor
because this is what hate directly
connects to social media again the 50%
increase you're talking about a
relatively small number because not as
many girls commit suicide as men but
still this could you're talking about
you were talking about depression right
and you were talking about these
significant factors it would lead people
to be to have poor mental health yeah
this could be a huge factor in this
right and I think that too it leads
people to you know suicidal ideations
and depression and anxiety I mean right
here we're just looking at charges you
know the worst endpoint possible it's
very rare amongst girls period yes right
or not or less it is yes men do commit
suicide more than women do but you know
we really have to be you know careful
about that because you know again
suicide is is the aim that's it's the
worst thing that could possibly happen
so what about you know all all the all
the things leading up to it you know are
there people who who don't commit
suicide but you know suffer from
terrible depression suffer from terrible
anxiety suffer from terrible insomnia
you know those people are not accounted
for in that graph III agree and what I'm
saying is that cannabis use has spiked
in the United States in the last 15
years and teens notwithstanding we've
seen a large degradation in a number of
these social outcomes and now just today
we have a JAMA psychiatry paper that
looked at a bunch of other studies that
said
cannabis use in teenagers is associated
with depression suicidal ideation and
suicide attempts in people once they get
to 18 to 30 okay maybe a factor
what's his part it could possibly be a
factor yes but it might it might also be
that these kids are depressed because of
social media and they're using cannabis
or they're depressed because their
friends died from opioid overdose
there's a lot of potential you know we
are conceding the fact that you know you
just said again that study was done on
adolescents you know Joe and I have both
conceded multiple times that you know we
do not think high GHC cannabis is good
for people in that age category but you
know just just to back up just a little
bit again you know I don't like I said
earlier that you know I don't prescribe
Chi C generally to anyone under the age
of 25 most other doctors in Canada don't
but I think that we should be
prescribing CBD to these kids like a lot
of those kids you know who have suicidal
ideations depression I mean you know you
could never do a study on it but you
know how many of those kids wouldn't
have committed suicide or wouldn't be
feeling this way if they were using CBD
because we know SSRI selective serotonin
reuptake inhibitors you know which are
the most commonly prescribed medication
for depression and anxiety even in
adolescence we know that they they can
increase suicidal ideations that's been
shown I mean it's written right on right
on the package so again like as a
clinician you have to you know treat
your patients if you're just treating
people with something that's it's not
effective or the that has your horrible
side effects you're going to look at
other alternative treatments a lot of
people have have shown our sorry have
had excellent results with CBD in that
age category
you know I've had had it done in my
practice and lots of other you know
physicians have had it done in in their
practice so it's really important that
when we're talking about teenagers and
when you're talking about that study
you're talking about high potency THC in
adolescents that's where you know Joe
and I both can see that you know THC is
is not a good medicine
look if GW Pharma or somebody else
can do a study with CBD and depression
or some other cannabinoids and
non-intoxicating cannabinoid and
depression and get it approved for that
that'd be great
we need we we need all the treatments
for depression and for and boy do we
need treatments for psychosis that we
can get I totally agree with it and I'm
really glad to hear you say you don't
think that adolescents should be using
high potency or any no and they and they
should try it it's also you know stay
away from the other medication so I want
to push back on this on the alcohol
versus a cannabis for teens thing and I
know that this is a common feeling among
you know among people in Brooklyn and
among people in LA and sort of right I
mean right think yeah me sir you know
sort of the general center left to left
you everywhere is that cannabis is
better for teens than alcohol I totally
disagree with that canvas alcohol would
no one's saying that
I'm just saying alcohol is bad too we
agree but you know I mean I think you
have heard this right oh I'd rather have
my kids smoking pot my 16 year old I
think that's crazy
you you have to really be careful with
anything that severely perturbs your
sense of reality when you're a young kid
and you're trying to form your vision of
the world I think to unpack what we're
saying here is that there is an increase
in mental health disorders amongst young
kids that corresponds to the increased
use of social media and may correspond
to the use of cannabis but that's not
necessarily proven what we'd guarantee
almost universally is these kids are on
social media yeah and and also to I
think much more likely that they're on
social media then use cannabis I think a
lot of them use cannabis I don't think
all of them I think all of them were on
social media
absolutely yeah I think that you know
almost every single kid these days these
days has a cell phone and they have some
type of social media account I'm worried
about kids using everything I'm worried
about them using valium I'm worried
about these stimulants are all yes Zach
I think I think psychiatrists give out a
dd medicine yeah it's too frequent i oh
100% agree and I think that it has a
severe impact on kids when they're
trying to study for tests when they're
trying to take their SATs when they're
trying to get into a good college I know
so many people that are on that shit I
know so many people whether they're
journalists
I know comedians I know a lot of fucking
people
we're on adderall yes yeah and you need
to develop that kind of like toughness
when you're young like it shouldn't just
be like you know 14 years old and then
you know you run into your first you
know bit of trouble in your life and
then you you reach for a pill that's
terrible right that's a terrible coping
coping mechanism so you know when you
teach that to kids at an early age and
when you tell them it's such a terrible
thing to tell someone
oh you're 14 years old you have major
depressive disorder you're gonna take
this pill you need it for the rest of
your life and that's said to people all
the time oh you have a biochemical
deficiency and this is what you need we
need kids to be tougher right so you
need you need them to you know build up
some resiliency so that you know when
they do go through hard times you know
they have better coping mechanisms like
Joe talks about diet and exercise all
the time I talked about diet and
exercise all the time literally you guys
delivered and that's kind of how I got
my my start on social media it is
through diet and exercise yeah I found
the exercise is a big one for you kids I
mean it was a gigantic factor for me
personally when I was 15 years old I
really got into martial arts and it
changed my life it changed my life by
alleviating so much anxiety giving me so
much more relaxed my parents talked
about to like there's to use there's you
before martial arts is you after martial
arts but you have relatively young kids
yes and so do i and boy they love the
devices I mean I mean we have to fight
and we you know our kids the fortune
under 3 & 6 at this point they don't
have their own iPad or iPhone or
anything but but you give it to them for
five minutes it's like crack it's like
yes you got a tear down to their hand oh
yeah my kid just turn their shoulder
what I try to get the iPad from her
they're like no no no one more one more
like it's crazy it's a little made it's
it's very fun and exciting for them you
know and look it's not entirely negative
like we have this this TV setup with
this dance game that they play and
they're sweating and dancing and after
it's
over the giggling and laughing it's in a
massive alleviate er of physical stress
because it's like they're constantly got
to follow this thing and it's it's an
exercise routine yeah I mean they're
really their cardio they're there for
cardiovascular rate it gets up and
they're they really feel good afterwards
so it's not entirely negative but it's
mostly negative yes yeah yeah but if you
have like I don't know is that Nintendo
Wii or whatever it is yeah you can do
well it's an Xbox is this little thing
that scans it or you actually can use
your phone and if you hold a phone you
like I'll give them my phone my wife
will give the other one the her phone
and like the phone shows how you're
moving that's right right so like like
you mimic this thing that the person on
the screen is doing but that mean that's
one thing that could could be considered
positive I think for the most part the
real issue is social pressure and
anxiety that comes from kids talking
shit about each other and they they push
buttons they push buttons on each other
because they know that they can it has
but you would get free from it when you
went home you're not free from it ever
now these kids are waking up in the
middle of the night and checking their
Twitter account and finding their
friends are talking shit about them
whether it's on Facebook or whatever and
this girl from school that fucking bitch
and she commented on my youtube video
this is dealing with yeah you know look
at her with her fat face lol and then
this little 12 year olds like oh that is
that's a severe severe factor that no
one had to consider before yeah and it
makes you almost not want to go to
school like those kids don't go to
school because because of that because
they don't want to have to deal with you
know someone said some idea in my office
all the time someone said something to
them last night on social media so I
didn't go to school today because they
don't want to have to face that like
that's something that you know my
generation never ever had to face but
but I do I mean I do I think we're a
little bit off topic here in terms of so
we're time at depression and we're
talking about a factor could be
considered as big if not bigger but
social media now was people to get
psychotic
I don't know about that well I don't
listen this is why I don't know about
that severe anxiety lack of sleep
depression absolutely are correlated
with altercations on social media
sure but social interactions that are
severely negative they're correlated
with poor mental health the good news is
the brain is a relatively strong and
power for some people but if you look at
situation levels of psychosis okay
again it's less than one percent for
schizophrenia which is the most severe
version you have sort of yet bipolar
disorder psychosis depressive psychosis
other kinds of psychosis maybe you get
to about three to four percent of the
population is going to be diagnosed
clinically with one of these illnesses
over the course of their life so so okay
on the one hand that's that's a lot of
people on the other hand most people are
not gonna get psychotic and most of the
time if they do there's either a genetic
component that's obvious because
psychosis and schizophrenia often do run
in families or there's an environmental
component that's that's pretty obvious
how many people can get psychotic they
can get a brain tumor can make them
psychotic they can you know late in life
they can get dementia that makes them
psychotic there's oftentimes a pretty
clear organic cause okay so when we're
taught so so the brain is a relatively
strong and healthy organ and it takes a
lot to break it and that's why I mean
that's a bold state is a bold statement
but I would not I would not agree with
that at all you really you think no okay
I mean I'm not saying that people don't
get depressed takes a lot to break
people are depressed although I'm
talking about the trio that the fucking
anti-psychotic medication was a number
one prescribed medications crazy like
people say to me you know that people
used to say oh I'm on antidepressants
I'm on I'm on anti-anxiety medication
now people like I hear them at parties
and stuff saying like oh I'm on seroquel
I'm just thinking like well that person
just tell a bunch people that like
they're on antipsychotics great weird
that people don't know that Sarah : Adam
Baelfire antipsychotics right because
they've been sort of marketed as outside
the class when in reality they're part
of the class but I got a push back on
you a little bit sales numbers for those
drugs those are expensive drugs they're
not the most prescribed drugs
in the country hold on abilify was the
most prescribed drug in the United
States just look that up we know we have
Odetta we've talked about it on the
podcast because it's insane
that is insane and we do we go to this
is a good time to to talk a little bit
about about genetics after we don't look
at this as we can tease out a few things
by looking at genetics this
antipsychotic abilify is the biggest
selling drug right us to be a top seller
drug has to be expensive and also widely
use abilify is both it's the fourteenth
most prescribed brand name medication so
it's 46 but fucking that's crazy
all the people with actual diseases this
is a fourteenth most prescribed brand
name medication of retails for about
thirty dollars a pill well doctor I mean
doctor can probably tell you that this
is getting prescribed as an add-on
antidepressant Fulsom what that is - is
that are struggling men like like life
is hard for a lot of people like very
hard very difficult okay so a lot of
people need something sometimes at the
end of the day or during the day to help
them get through the day cannabis you
know especially the CBD component and
also the THC component when used
properly is okay like I tell people all
the time I've made I've made social
media posts about it that like you know
if you need to use a little bit of
cannabis at the end of the day just to
help you sleep
man you're doing great and you're
staying away from like drugs and like
you know prostitution gambling and all
these other brutal as other people have
if you doing all that then like you're
doing you're doing pretty good overall
right so gambling is not bad people
handheld devices that that are
inherently addictive where they can bet
on sports every 15 seconds there's a
super bad idea hundred percent agree you
talk about that - yeah you know it's one
things benefited me with social media is
my eyesight is going older I can't even
read my Twitter feed I fucked these
people I don't live it if I don't put my
glasses I don't know what the fuck
there's Hank oh my god
people don't get depressing it actually
I'm saying psychosis is a different
thing okay okay I think we are
discussing overall mental health yes I
mean look I'm saying this because I
really think that this is something that
I've made a big turn over the last few
years with myself that I don't often
break yes please go I don't think
marijuana is as safe as I used to think
it is I used to think it was benign I
really used to think there was no big
deal but I have a friend that I
discussed the other day who was a really
confident fucking muscular a handsome
man that never did anything and he took
a marijuana edible to go to sleep and
for two weeks this guy was fighting this
is a different guy not that I was
talking it's not Rafi
no a different guy he took it and he
experienced suicidal thoughts and and
all these he had like severe
consequences I think that the human
beings we vary so much biologically that
to just make this overall blanket
statement what's good for you is good
for me is irresponsible and I've been
irresponsible as saying that one reason
it's interesting what not reason I think
that alcohol is so widely accepted
despite all the problems it causes and
again alcohol can certainly cause
problems
yeah is that alcohol affects most people
pretty much the same way you know if and
you sort of know if what somebody looks
like when they have one drink when they
have five drinks got some dresses I've
got some friends that get those gerbil
eyes you ever see when they start
talking crazy but you sort of know that
and you sort of know how long it's gonna
take to clear your body and you yes
cannabis is so different it's a really
complicated drug and it does affect
different people in different yes and
also the tolerance has changed yes okay
so you know people say well two and a
half milligrams of THC you vape it
that's like one drink for somebody who
you know who doesn't use but then if you
if you're a tolerant user you can use
200 milligrams in a day that's eighty
drinks yeah it's a weird drug and then
there's the issue of eating it yes when
you eat it your body produces something
called eleven hydrogen's on the tab
alight it's a far more psycho act you
are all along for the ride when that
happened
yes you are yes and it can take days for
it to get out of your system I know many
people have eaten marijuana edibles and
then they call me up the next day like
dude I'm still hot yeah yeah
so so so I think I think the
legalization community has sort of said
for years like oh there's basically no
downsides to this there's only upsides
the cops will bust smokers
there'll be tax revenue all these people
have a way to get high that's clearly
safer than alcohol and unfortunately
that's just not true
I think you're right and I think the the
issue that people from what I've read
are having with your book or people that
are marijuana advocates that think that
your position is unbalanced and that
you've ignored the positive aspects of
THC in terms of like what he was talking
about cognitive benefits for people with
psychotic episodes and that you were
only focusing on the negative plead
guilty today yeah because I think that
for 20 years people have only heard the
positive right eye I think that's I
think that's also I'll plead guilty to
that myself because I think that I've
only been discussing the positives and
one of the things that I've tried very
hard to do and one of the things I've
learned how to do from doing this
podcast and experiencing criticism and
communicating with a bunch of different
people with a lot of different
viewpoints is examine my own positions
and try to figure out am i coming at
this from a truly balanced position or
am I trying to support a conclusion that
I started out with and I'm trying to you
know somehow or another back up my own
work or back up my own just my own
statements and and and sort of prop them
up instead of being really honest and
objective it's very difficult to do
listen I wrote a book called tell your
children the truth about marijuana
mental illness and violence you're I
don't think you can you can think that
that book is gonna be a compendium of
the pros and cons above if you want to
tell your children the truth though you
really do want to tell them the pros and
cons right and you did indicate Alex you
said you know we should tell people the
truth yeah in the book right so you know
I think that when you're telling and
you're saying that that you're telling
the truth and Alex I'm agreeing with you
that you're killing part of the truth
right but part of the truth is you know
a little bit deceiving and deceptive it
in some ways right you want to tell the
whole truth when you tell the whole
truth then you give the whole story and
the
people can actually make you know a good
informed decision based upon that like
if people are going to just read one
part of the story then of course they're
gonna make a decision just based upon
that one part they're not going to make
you know an informed decision based upon
all of the products come and because of
that people are going to make you know
some very poor choices I completely
agree with that but to me the last 20
years have been an exercise in the other
side in the legalization side doing a
very very good job talking up its
arguments and essentially there's
there's almost nobody on the other side
there's this one Jeff Sessions you had
the fucking goddamn Attorney General's
telling people that good people don't
smoke marijuana but that's that's a
terrible thing to say sure people don't
smoke marijuana there's a lot of
wonderful people who smoke my this is
not true and and and by the way I think
this is a personal choice okay
especially for adults yeah okay and and
you can make bad personal choices you go
out look I play cards I'd love to play
poker
I'm said that on this trip to LA I
didn't get to go to a poker room but you
can go a new casino and you can see
people change encouraged me but you can
go to a casino and see people have lost
their houses it doesn't mean that
gambling should be illegal it also means
that there's less and more dangerous
forms that device in your hand where you
can bet on what the next pitch is gonna
be if it's gonna be a ball or a strike
yeah that's more dangerous than my
having to drive to the commerce and play
there and one hundred percent or 98
percent THC that an eighteen-year-old
vapes is a lot more dangerous than a
five percent you know CBD 15 percent THC
product that dr. Hart might suggest his
patient uses once a night to go to
second rate but that that's the message
that you know we should be putting out
there right we shouldn't just be you
know focusing on one side of the story
like that part you know should also be
you know included in the book and like
you know your book you know in some ways
has made me rethink the way that I write
you know because my first book was
co-authored with Jeremy cost and called
friendly fire you know my second book
that I'm writing
it's called canvas for ptg so it's how
to transform post-traumatic stress into
post-traumatic growth right because I
feel that and you know we all know
examples of people that have you
encountered really difficult obstacles
in their life and some people have you
know succumb to that stress and they've
gone down you know the wrong path kind
of thing and then other people have used
that stress to their advantage and
they've actually become you know better
because of it and you know CBD and THC
can both help facilitate that process
you know when you're looking at someone
like like a veteran for example you know
the hallmark of song with PTSD is
someone who doesn't leave their home and
they can't sleep at night so like when I
see a vet in my office a lot of the
times they'll be leaving their home like
five to ten days a month right so when
you give them CBD and this is really
important for people understand CBD has
been shown to decrease learned fear
that's incredible right so if you can
get people outside of their home because
I'm not talking about again you know
someone who's you know too nervous to
like go to a you know at the bar with
like the friends or some like that I'm
talking to people who like you know it's
difficult for them to go to the grocery
store just like pick up a few things so
you know those the type of people that I
see in my practice of CBD is really
excellent for that then when you look at
you know the the nighttime component you
know THC again is excellent for reducing
nightmares that's been shown in studies
and it was even shown with one
pharmaceutical drug now blown again I
don't really use now blown very much
because it's only one cannabinoid and I
do believe in the entourage effect and
using all of the cannabinoids so I don't
use that that much but that shows that
she she can reduce nightmares and you
know if you have you if you have PTSD I
mean if you talk to someone who has PTSD
and again this is this comes from a
clinicians point of view they will tell
you I will try anything and that's the
same way when you get with like you know
the parents of kids who have seizures
all day nobody wants to see that you're
in like I'm like Alex you know if your
kids you know ever started getting
getting seizures which you know I hope I
hope they don't because it's it's
terrible you know what what I can do it
at people but
if that ever happened you know I would
hope that you would consider you know
CBD as a potential yeah I think he's not
against that I think we have to be
really clear as tension like CBD you
know again CBD at all I don't know I
don't think anybody is I think no one
really is arguing except maybe the
federal government in certain levels is
arguing against CBD that's probably some
pushback from the pharmaceutical
industry the reality is CBD is proven to
be at least as far as I've read very
safe and very effective for a bunch of
different disorders especially those
that are about reducing and have it
something to do with inflammation or
seizures yeah one of my good friends his
son has developed seizures and CBD
knocked it out just killed it this is
very recently you know you're somebody
who's you know who's a cannabis user you
obviously know a lot of users why do you
think it is that people you know in
legal states where they can really
express a preference they can go into a
dispensary know exactly what they're
buying why is it that they want such
high potency THC product because they
get used to it
your tolerance develops it builds up you
know every year we do this thing called
sober October well we don't do any no
drinking no no pot and then we do some
sort of crazy challenge me and three of
my buddies and when we do it what it's
it's very interesting how your tolerance
is radically reduced I guess I'll smoke
pot at the end of that month and I'm
like holy shit like I don't even know
what I'm talking about the mid-sentence
and I'm just blitzkrieged whereas you
know now like I smoked a little weed
last night did some stand-up had a great
old time there's no issues with it at
all but I'm used to it and if the weed
that I smoked last I assume you don't
smoke I do not okay if you and me were
together last night and I gave you a hit
of my joint
you'd be still there in the corner in
the fetal position what and the fuck is
going on because the marijuana is
ridiculously powerful but once you're
accustomed to it once your body
acclimates it's really not that big of a
deal the problem is you you're dealing
with a lot of habitual daily users and
for those people like my friend Joey
Diaz there's a video of him given this
other comedian
how many milligrams of those stars of
death Oh Tilly like when we give Owen
what did he give oh I think just one you
ruined his life end about 200 to 250 and
went out the Joey made a video but the
day changed Owens life like literally
fuck the guy's head up like he went
outside he vanished he's gone well I
think I think there's a real argument to
be made it's particularly with him well
I was gonna make two points on that so
you definitely can develop a tolerance
yeah and I tell people all the time try
and take at least one three week break
but the evidence does show that if you
stop for four weeks
generally all your receptors return and
will be like you've never used cannabis
before so that's and that's even with
people who are really really heavy users
I can go back and get the study but I
mean these people are you using I'm
pretty sure it was like close like seven
joints a day well really heavy users and
noop dogs a good example of that you
know my friend Tony Hinchcliffe his good
buddies with Snoop Dogg and he said
Snoop Dogg just smokes all day and he
just like is always high and you know
you're like well what do you do when
you're not I is like what I'm never not
high so everything he does he is high as
fuck really everything he does look for
that guy it's not that big of a deal and
for the way he lives his life like he's
just a relaxed easygoing guy it's no
problem you could be high all day and
live his life and he's obviously wildly
successful with this strategy yeah
loudly second point I was gonna I was
gonna make on that too though was there
does not appear to be any tolerance at
the cb2 receptor so Chi Chi attaches to
the cb1 receptor and that's and that's
where we know we can get tolerance you
know some people you know they they have
some pain they use some THC and
sometimes they need a little bit more
same sometimes asleep you know they use
THC it'll work and then we'll stop
working with CBD too we haven't seen
that meaning like the people who you
know get get seizure control generally
they don't need to increase the dose
like the girl I was talking about
earlier you know I first subscriber I
think when she was 20 and she was my
20 she's 25 now she's never increased
her dose and she's just used the same
amount to CBD for the last think we
should really stop talking about CBD I
just wanted to make a note on the on BIA
tolerance of anyone I just wanted to
make a note that CB to the doesn't
appear to be tolerance it's all yeah
it's just there's just such a
significant impact when when it comes to
especially edible THC it's a there's a
significant impact on people's state of
mind and it's not always good no that's
just a fact we were talking about this
when when you were out but you know
that's why I so I had an interview I was
that guy was doing a radio interview on
the Acela from from DC to New York last
month and this woman came in and was
Baltimore she sat down next to me and I
finished the interview and she said she
said I couldn't help overhearing I
thought out Jesus like she's she's a
pothead or she's just annoyed that I was
doing this but no she said you know I
was in Seattle last month she's this
woman was in her early 30s she was a
lawyer married she said and a friend of
mine said to me let's let's have let's
do an edible she said I took it we
bought a small dose we asked him for a
small dose I took half of it so I think
she took like five milligrams if that
and she said she said I got so paranoid
she said I couldn't sleep all night
fortunately my friend took and didn't
have any problem and sort of watched
over me but she said the worst part was
it took me weeks weeks for the anxiety
to face and I said I said do you have do
you have a history of mental health
problems she said no I don't she said
she said I'd used you know I'd smoked in
college and but this was just a totally
different experience I think there's a
big problem with education a big problem
with the education that edible marijuana
as we talked about before I think you
were in the bathroom the 11 hydroxy
metabolite is it's processed by the
liver it's a radically different drug
radically different and its really a
psychedelic and in a very in for me
personally
edible marijuana and flotation tanks I
might as well be taking a fucking bucket
of acid
because it is a crazy goddamn experience
now I personally enjoy being paranoid
and I know this sounds crazy but I think
with me it gives me and I think I live a
pretty blessed life and I like I like
the feeling of paranoia because it
allows me to explore maybe some area
like maybe in a specific paranoia that
you're it's a freak out man I think I
have maybe an abundance of confidence
maybe I have too much right maybe I'm
too successful what I like about the
paranoia that comes with edible
marijuana is it allows me to check
myself it allows me to put myself
examine all of my behavior in the
darkest recesses of my mind my thoughts
and and gives me a perspective makes me
a nicer person you go just a little tiny
just like the other psychedelics I think
it just it gives you just a little
knocks down an ego just a little I mean
some people use it and like at the end
of the day and then you know like like
Joe said I think it makes you reflect
sometimes better and more objectively
meaning that like you know maybe had an
encounter with someone earlier in the
day and then you know late at night you
toke up a bet you're like ah man I
should have done things a little bit
different I'm it just it forces you to
reflect in a different state and
sometimes when you reflect in that state
you come up with thoughts that that you
just want to come up with before yeah
like my patients say to me all the time
like it just kind of breaks this like
negative state that I have I'm just able
to break out of a negative state and
think illogically you know I'm set
people say that to me all the time but
but see you're to me you're talking
about something different and it works
for you right you your paranoia is it
sounds more almost existential it's how
can I be a better person what am I doing
wrong in my life it's not my wife is
poisoning me or you know or the cops are
gonna bust the fucking door
shoot me yes okay yeah that's a
different thing and that's why
difficulty that's why Marin marijuana
drives this extreme violence in some
people or those people need to get their
fucking shit together well that's
possible too aren't really common bro
but they may need to be intervened
before and to Joe's point though they
have shown in studies that if you make
an intervention other outside of the
psychotic symptoms you can actually
reduce the incidence of violence yes and
also to I think it's you know a good
point I was going to mention earlier to
bring up genetics because we are teasing
out genetics for people and we are
discovering that certain people do have
certain genetics that do predispose them
to certain cannabis disorders right so
you know I'm involved with with the
company that's doing that right now
we're trying to create cannabis genetic
test for people right and there's three
genes that we've identified so far you
know one of those mapk 14 genotype and
that has been shown to be associated
with a deficit in brain volume when you
do use cannabis and then there's two
other genes that a key t1 and the CA d
mm to genotype you know both of those
have also been shown to be associated
with cannabis but again you know how
many people have them dmap k14 is
roughly about 8% is what we're seeing
the achy t1 is around 4% and the CA d m2
is around is around 5% so that's almost
20% of the population but but but we're
seeing but if we can identify I love
that stuff lines main yeah yeah that's
wicked so if we can identify you know
the people who are at risk then we can
Mabley
potentially you know you use the
medicine in a way where only the people
who don't have these genetics are using
the medicine and then you know for the
people who do have these genetics you
know they stick mostly to CBD I just
think you know that that's a better
approach then you know just just kind of
prohibiting cannabis or saying that you
know we shouldn't we shouldn't use it at
all or saying that it's
Madison I think that it should be held
to the same standard as any other
medicine and I think that if we had an
incredible medicine that worked for some
people and it didn't work for others
then what we would do is we try to
figure out why and you know I've been
doing that my companies have been doing
that it's called anent life you know
full disclosure I am on the board and
that life.com and you know and when we
use these different these different
strategies you know then we can actually
reduce the overall harm and that should
be another thing that we can add into
the mix because for sure there's people
who are definitely more predisposed to
mental illness and definitely more
predisposed to to psychosis I mean there
do seem to be some people who just it
breaks really fast and I'm not sure why
I mean again it's probably genetic
there's yeah I think but you know it's
why you you mentioned you know your
friend who's whose child has autism and
and you said well you know I if that if
that were my child of course I would
want to do anything possible but I have
to tell you in the last month since the
book came out I've heard the other side
of this okay I've heard from so many
parents whose children and in many cases
high-functioning children college
graduates because by the way those are
the people who you know read the book or
heard about the book and and who have
the resources to stay involved with
their kids when they have these terrible
breaks who who have gone completely off
the rails and the worst story that I've
heard so far came from a woman in
Connecticut whose son graduated from
high ever further you know it's a the
college in the east and you know sounds
like a really good guy he wanted to yeah
you know teach disadvantaged kids he had
a girlfriend who was going to met or was
a pre-med trying to go to med school
they moved to New Mexico and for some
reason the guy decided to start smoking
this was 2012 and within a few months he
lost everything okay the the girlfriend
had left he lost his job he had his
first inpatient hospitalization now this
is a family with money okay this is
Connecticut suburban ah and they have
spent the last six years trying to save
their son and they have failed she told
me that they've spent more than half a
million dollars
he was hospitalized at Harvard you know
he had the best treatment none
it's made a difference to him and what
is the symptoms are so so so he's he's
completely schizophrenic now and he's
completely paranoid and he believes and
this is the this is that so he's his
girlfriend is long gone but she tried
CBD ah that's a good question I think
he's continued to use cannabis I don't
know if he's use CBD but let me let me
just tell you where he is now okay so
he's one of these guys who has a really
bad delusion his delusion is that his
girlfriend has died and been replaced by
a robot so that's the kind of delusion
that leads you to kill people and so and
so this guy's been now hospitalized 17
times he's he's gone he's on the streets
of Houston
she doesn't know where he is and I'll
tell you you know you read beautiful boy
you see the movie and you think well the
wasn't I'm not familiar beautiful boy is
about um a beautiful mind isn't no no
beautiful boy is it is a book that came
out I think a couple years ago got
turned into a movie you should have him
on a Nick Chef and David Sheff father
and son and the son became a meth addict
and essentially almost died he they he
started smoking cannabis when he was
twelve and within a couple years it had
all gone completely downhill for him I'm
surprised it's a it's a pretty popular
book but anyway have you heard of it no
Jamie and I've heard of the movie yeah
yeah um so so you think well okay the
worst thing that can happen you as a
parent the worst thing is your your
child becomes an opioid addict and you
wait for the call that he overdosed and
died it turns out that that's the second
worst thing the worst thing that can
happen is your son the college graduate
the want to be do-gooder becomes a
schizophrenic living on the streets and
then you're waiting for the call that he
killed himself or he killed somebody
else and so my my you know my my view of
this is in a couple more years probably
I mean this book has taken over my life
obviously but in a couple years I'm
gonna be back to writing novels I'm
gonna be in Austin but this will still
be part of my life but this woman these
parents they are gonna spend their lives
trying to just destroy the cannabis
industry and that is real well I think
that would be a foolish thing to do but
I think there is a real possibility that
some people who have a tendency to
schizophrenia could be triggered by
cannabis
I don't think there's no need in Austin
about that but I think it's also
possible that God would have gotten
schizophrenia anyway look it's possible
but he was sort of at the outer edge of
the window and he had no idea the window
it's usually for boys it's sort of 17 to
23 24 he's showing any issue according
to her I mean this is from her so she's
the mother but but well I'm sure she'd
be the one who knows the most there are
people though too who just kind of have
a decline with or or without cannabis
you do here is just a breakup it's just
they just you know I I mean I know
people you know that we've gone to
medical and stuff that have gone to
medical school and then one semester
they just can't handle the course load
and then their life just goes to shit
yet they drop out of school no one ever
hears from again you know they don't
read you know get get back into school
that's it that that does happen you're
all the time that's the agility of the
human mind yeah it is and it affects a
certain percentage of the population
regardless of cannabis use there's a lot
of people out there that up skates are
friendly that I've never used cannabis
ever and they've gone completely you
know off the edge I don't know if you
can necessarily blame cannabis for that
and it would be really interesting to
find out if there was some form of a
treatment like you were saying with CBD
that could counteract that maybe has
been shown in early stage studies to
have some moderate impact on psychosis I
I don't think from the the numbers that
I've seen suggest it really isn't that
strong as an mi psychotic but I do think
that if I were a researcher in
schizophrenia I would be looking at the
endocannabinoids yeah yeah you have to
look at this again I look at it you know
from a clinical perspective Lee the
antipsychotics that we have out there
are not good they have terrible they
have terrible side effects and most of
them do have some initial Bennett
benefit but after two to three years
there's almost no benefit one right and
they have as you said really bad side
effects weight gain metabolic
disturbances like people want to get off
of them so if you have something like
CBD that doesn't have any of those side
effects of
as a clinician you're gonna want to try
it right because you know that the other
tools that you have are not really that
effective yes right so you know CBD can
should definitely be you know utilized
for people who have who have psychosis
and schizophrenia well I think you know
we talked about life changes like things
that happen badly and your life losing
your job losing your girlfriend deaths
in the family can contribute with some
folks but psychedelic drugs can as well
I mean it's a fact yeah but for some
people psychedelic drugs have tremendous
benefits for PTSD quitting alcohol
quitting hard drugs there's a lot of
people that have used mushrooms MDMA for
PTSD is a huge thing that Maps is
studying right now but you can't deny
that there's other people and
well-documented that have taken LSD that
have taken psilocybin and taken them in
large doses in gone yes and never
recovered yeah you know and that's why -
I forget who it was maybe it was McKenna
who is on and you guys were saying that
like you know we need to use psychedelic
medicines but we need to use them
properly right and that's the same way
with with with cannabis as well and I
consider cannabis too psychedelic yeah
particularly when you eat it absolutely
you know it is it is a mild psychedelic
and you know so those rests and benefits
to that and you know we need to tease
out the rest and tease out the benefits
and make sure that people we should make
but Alex we need to make sure that
people are informed and they get the
entire picture right so you know does
your book have some truth in it yes of
course it does but does it tell the
whole truth absolutely not right and
that's the message that you know I think
people should be hearing people
shouldn't be hearing just part of the
truth they should be hearing the whole
truth and again you know like in your
book like you compared you know that the
Mexico in India right and you know I
talked it to German Lopez on the phone
about this and you know who talked to
Isaac Hampshire's right and he said so
so Isaac Campos you know he's the guy
who who basically you know was told the
story of how how in Mexico you know
people were blaming marijuana people
were blaming marijuana on causing
psychosis during kind of like the early
1900's and then there was some evidence
as well in India at that time so I was
kind of made the connection you know
9,000 miles
part you know they're both saying the
same thing but you know he said that you
know you did misinterpret the evidence
on it right and and in German told me
that on the phone and I mean all the
cannabis that was used in Mexico at that
time was in you know really marginalized
environments and then when you look at
the India study you know that they say
and I know that you addressed this in
your book house cuz I did read your book
sounds like you did I bought your book
so you know in some ways I did yeah so I
read your book and like I said you know
you did address in the part on India
that yeah you know some of the report
was wrong but I mean the fact is that
all almost a lot of those cases in India
were were actually attributed to alcohol
or opiates or other things and then the
other thing in in Mexico is that it was
in those environments so you know
basically what I'm kind of getting in
here is like you know that the National
Academy of Sciences and engineering you
know they you know disagree with how you
interpreted their findings and they know
these people deceive how you interpreted
their finds okay but Ziva is only one of
the sixteen members I get that but if we
asked other members I think that they
would all say the same thing because
Alex wouldn't you be upset if someone
just quoted one part of your book and
then left out all the other parts I mean
I would think that would be a huge
disservice to my work I would not want I
would not have put one and put in a ton
of effort into something and then for
someone to only have you know that just
to pick up the part that you know that
really depends on ORS nuance
honestly if I'd written the NASM report
the a.m. report and came out in 2017 and
nobody had patient any attention to it
which nobody did and nobody did for two
years and suddenly people were paying
attention to it I'd be pretty happy
about that but what what dr. Hart is
Hawking about is in the first chapter of
the book which I guess you haven't read
and I really should have a copy for you
it's stupid of me I got a copy of my bag
but so this is fascinating to me the the
British you know they colonized India
and they set up what they called lunatic
asylum was really psychiatric hospital
sort of very primitive psychiatric
hospitals and they were really initially
for soldiers in the Indian Army and they
were run by British doctors and what
these doctors really as early as like
the late 1850s 1860s noticed was that a
lot of the people who showed up in these
hospitals were showing up with canopy
what they called ganja actually in
Indians called ganja or bong which is a
very weak preparation of basically or
Indian hemp just sort of low-grade
cannabis and so and so they started
counting and they raised the twenty to
thirty percent of the people who were
coming to asylums or heavy cannabis
users and that was way more than alcohol
is more than opium and this really
fascinating doctor named George Francis
William EWTN's wrote a book in 1908 and
he looked at the evidence and and it is
amazing to hear how he describes
schizophrenia how he describes cannabis
how he describes the cases of violence
around cannabis it's like it's like any
psychiatrist today certainly any
forensic psychiatrist like my wife would
would like everything in the book would
ring completely true and it was so
fascinating to me to stumble on this and
realize this is something people were
talking about for more than a hundred
years mmm so could we agree that there
are some people where cannabis is not a
good idea absolutely right we could
agree that that's a all right would
think we all great
we're also agree that some people can't
eat peanuts absolutely yeah yeah right
yeah you know why peanuts kill you
that's yeah it's more dangerous Oh so
these second six hundred a year yeah
people die from peanuts so yeah I think
more people die from cameras as a result
in the suicides okay
well there's no correlation there's no
study no somebody's got to do the work
but why you saying that then because
I've looked at enough data to tell me
you think marijuana is causing homicides
oh yeah this is what the book is about
but anyhow so what does it causes
paranoia and psychosis in people and
paranoid psychosis are huge risks for
homicide and schizophrenia studies that
refute that
there are no studies that refute that
paranoid psychosis are huge risk for
homicide schizophrenia is a 20x20 times
Joe well Jamie I sent you a document
yesterday I mean there's there's
multiple studies that show that you know
marijuana laws are not associated with
with any drug yeah so the use of the
drug which could possibly trigger
psychosis psychosis and schizophrenia
which are correlated with murder so
they're not correlated their triggers
that's an absolute fact yeah triggers
because of the paranoia and delusions
and you think that someone's out to get
you and they're not absolutely I mean
the out of the numbers okay so the
numbers are if you're if you have a
diagnosis of schizophrenia you are
twenty times as likely to commit
homicide as somebody who's healthy now
it's actually worse than that for
cannabis okay and here's why what so the
National Alliance for mental illness and
the mental illness Advocate advocacy
groups hate talking about this why they
hate talking about it obviously because
it stigmatizes people with mental
illness so what they say and this is
true is if you have a diagnosis but
you're taking your antipsychotics even
though the side effects might be
unpleasant you're in treatment you're
you're you're not using recreational
drugs your risk for violence isn't that
high it's not that much higher than a
healthy person okay and you know
fortunately healthy people don't commit
murder that often the problem is if you
if you think about the math for half a
second if there's this one group of
people who don't have a very high risk
for murder or serious violence who
because they're not using because
they're on antipsychotics it means that
the excess risk in the people who are
using and who's untrue whose psychosis
is untreated it must be spectacularly
high and the numbers bear that out so so
there's a really good study from last
year 2018 a small group of patients in
in Switzerland Isis what's Ron Lind is a
safe country is a low base crime rate
but fifty percent of the people who are
using cannabis and had psychosis over a
three-year period committed violence in
that group of people that's mostly
20-something man well you know there's a
study here and I just sent it to Jamie
and it's
it's titled risk factors for violence
and psychosis a systemic review and
meta-analysis of 110 studies so you know
that's it's quite a few studies okay so
you know let me just just read part of
it out to you so if violence was
strongly associated with the history of
polysubstance abuse strong associate
with diagnostic oriented substance use
disorder and recent substance misuse and
moderately associate with the history of
alcohol misuse a history of substance
misuse recent alcohol misuse recent drug
misuse and a history of drug misuse it
was unclear if there was an association
between violence and history of cannabis
masseuse so again this is a hundred and
ten studies they very carefully looked
at all of the different risk factors as
to what could trigger violence just let
me finish Alex and what they said again
it was unclear if there was an
association between violence and a
history of cannabis misuse right so
that's a hundred and ten studies so
cannabis use in there is going to get
locked in with poly substance use like
because a lot of people who use are
gonna be using other drugs
Holle substance means multiple subs so
everything else was found to have
significantly sophistical announced and
I have not just mine a study that dr.
hurt assignment I'd like to look at it
without looking at it I can't push back
as hard as I would like what I can tell
you is that I have many studies in the
book that show that cannabis use is
associated with violence in people with
psychosis okay and more broadly it's
associated with violence in the general
population in large studies in studies
of high school students and bullying in
studies of people who were vacationing
in Ibiza in in in studies of young men
in China and the UK there are big
studies out there that show cannabis use
is associated with violence Ibiza
I got grilled over there for that they
get manager yeah I just said it yes some
dignitary or royal person how Lisp right
isn't that how it all started through
yeah yeah believe so noted yeah the way
the people in Spain prints words was
directly affected by this one person
apparently but um so this these this
correlation between people that have
schizophrenia and using cannabis how do
you is schizophrenia diagnosis it's
purely based on behavior basically yes
yeah it's a clinic there's no blood
tests do a brain scan it's basically how
you behave and and what you tell the
doctor about how you write right in our
eyes or it's very subjective because
you're asking someone basically a series
of questions I mean it's no different
than you know depression really I mean
you just just asking someone a series of
questions and then you know based upon
that which is very subjective then
you're gonna make you know a clinical
decision whereas when it's like a blood
test like if someone you know passes you
know a certain amount of hemoglobin a1c
you know and depending on which chart
you're looking at then you're going to
call that person pre-diabetic or
diabetic but you know our fortune we
just don't have those objective
measurements and again that's why you
know Alex was saying earlier that that
you know the they couldn't really figure
out you know how many people in the
United States had had schizophrenia and
I understand that but at the same time
to I mean it's okay to to adjust you
know the way that you diagnose someone
over the course of years and you learn
things because you know you could easily
say that almost everyone has some type
of mental illness and I mean people
should understand that
you know there's seven different basic
human emotions you know I've talked to
sports there's there's anger there's
contempt there's disgust there's fear
sadness surprise and happiness that's
seven so you know depending on which way
surprise goes I mean six out of those
seven are negative right because we're
wired to basically detect threats so you
know we're making you know the all these
diagnosis I think we have to be careful
because you
some people are calling themselves
depressed and some people are calling
themselves anxious when really you know
they're just not dealing with basic
human emotions that they need to
understand and need to deal with like
people are getting angry about being
angry or like depressed about being
depressed like if you feel one of these
emotions just kind of sit with it and
just kind of reflect on it and I think
you know that's a much much better way
to kind of kind of T to tease things out
button you want to come back to to my
original point I think that you know
more people are understanding that you
know we don't just need to give out a
pill for everything and that you know
everyone shouldn't just be labeled as
having a mental health diagnosis because
if things just keep you know going the
way they are you know what's by 2040
it's gonna be like 50% of people are
gonna have like a mental health disorder
so I people just need to understand that
life is hard you got to deal with these
motions sometimes it's not that big of a
deal and that's why and that's awesome
yeah for some folks and that's why I'm
such a big fan of Jordan Peterson
because yeah you know he's he's kind of
tough on people and he said but let me
stop there because Jordan Peterson was
on SSRIs for years yeah a long long time
like for a long long time as was his
family and that's what's crazy about him
is what got him off as a carnivore diet
limitation diet where he only eats meat
with salt and drinks water and the
healthier that he's ever been in his
life and that is a another massively
controversial subject yeah let me push
back a little bit because I think people
you know as controversial as the book
has been about about cannabis and
psychosis this violence issue is even
more controversial and obviously for a
fair number of people it doesn't really
doesn't sync with the stereo side it
doesn't say with how they've experienced
cannabis use right so I think I think
alcohols are really interesting
comparison um I'm a Canadian from
Newfoundland
I'm sorry youthful age understand
marijuana's loose and Landis is a
Newfoundland trade myself to say that
way your tongue I'm wrong lane
look what Jimenez pulled up marijuana
use increases violent behavior fifty
years study finds casual link between
cannabis and subsequent violent behavior
new research published online in advance
of print of the journals like
psychological medicine concludes that
continued use of cannabis causes violent
behavior as a direct result of changes
in brain function that are caused by
smoking weed over many years researchers
have long debated a possible link
between the use of marijuana and violent
crime in contrast to alcohol meth and
many other illegal drugs the metal wing
effects of cannabis seemed unsuited to
promoting violent behavior however ample
ample previous research has linked
marijuana used to increased violent
behavior the sticky problem in such
studies are that many confounding
factors co-founding factors involved in
interpreting this correlation so ok it
is very difficult to determine whether
or not any statistical correlation
between marijuana use and violent
behavior are causally linked or instead
the two associated or instead the two
are associated through some other
factors such as socioeconomic status
personality traits or many other
variables that are related to the
propensity to use marijuana so I think
that's a fairly good summary well of the
issues that James had the study came
from 411 boys who were born in 1953 in
London 97% of which were Caucasian and
all of them are raised in two-parent
households so so you know so those
people are relatively stable if they're
to family to parents to have parents be
to shit that's all so no it's possible
so so I think the alcohol comparison is
again a good one because anybody who's
ever been in a bar at 9 p.m. and gone
back at 2 a.m. knows that alcohol dis
inhibits people right it causes fights
right it it makes people loud it makes a
lot of fucking it does right
it's good imagine that's good that's
alcohol and sex you're a terrible idea
right it certainly causes some sexual
violence okay but at the same time
everybody knows that you can have a
drink you know you can have a beer at
that backyard barbecue you can classify
that's right it doesn't mean that you're
gonna get in a fight and it actually
might enhance your conversation social
lubricant all that good stuff all that
good stuff and you might even know
people I mean I do know people who I
would say have a problem with drinking
okay but it's mostly they're sitting at
home drinking scotch watching baseball
until they fall asleep that night now
that's obviously not a healthy way to
use alcohol but it doesn't make them
violent but we know on a population
basis that alcohol causes violence
it causes drunk driving it causes
problems and it's said that in the study
that that I quoted earlier but it's it's
said that alcohol again they they didn't
or sorry cannabis they weren't sure
right so okay so this is again I would
like to read the paper that you're
quoting from because I have so much
other research but here's here's what
I'm saying about cannabis okay
cannabis for a lot of people yeah they
can just smoke it and as people you know
many people have tweeted at me the only
thing I attacked was a bowl of nachos
hmm like and so and so that's true for
some people but that could be sent with
the alcohol well that's exactly logical
variable and there's so many studies
that say that that the cannabis laws
have actually decreased crime so so even
though for many people cannabis isn't
gonna cause violence that doesn't mean
it can't cause violence in some people
especially or at least could be affair
or at least could be a factor especially
with the kind of violence that I am
talking about and then I write about in
the book which is again so alcohol it
maybe makes a argument into a brawl it
makes a brawl into something where
somebody picks up a stick it makes that
into something where somebody pulls out
a knife it escalates right cannabis is
different cannabis causes paranoia and
psychosis and it certainly causes those
things temporarily even if it doesn't
cause them permanently so a distortion
in reality that could lead to you do
some things tear
and it's usually to somebody you're not
actually fighting with it's a family
member that the worst cases that I've
and I've really seen a lot of these
cases are basically innocent family
members who are just in the way when
somebody loses touch with reality and
literally thinks like this my 85 year
old grandmother is going to kill me so I
better stab her to death first that
happens it happens a lot and if you look
at the amount of violence that people
with psychosis commit on a population
level basis it looks like people with
schizophrenia commit about six to ten
percent of all the murders in this
country and it looks like people have
sort of broader to more broadly defined
psychosis again bipolar with psychosis
other psychotic conditions temporary
psychosis they might be responsible for
as much as 20 percent of the violent
crime in the United States that's a lot
of violent crime and what I'm saying is
that it is quite clear that drug use
mediates that violent crime in other
words if you're not using you can keep
your impulses in check but when you do
use you become dangerous so when we're
talking about biological variability if
we factor in schizophrenia you know
essentially what you're saying is that
there are people that have schizophrenia
that don't commit violence but that
they're much more likely to commit
violence if you add some sort of psych
medication whether it's marijuana
whether it's something else that
perturbs reality for them and
particularly psychotics bring down these
yes so recreational drug that's the
worse the worst cases of all are
cannabis and a stimulant because to
these they both like cocaine or meth
exactly yeah so when you get that you
get paranoid from two sources mm-hmm and
you get the only good thing about
cannabis from this point of use that
kind of knocks people down a little bit
but meth brings them right back so is it
fair to say that what we don't know is
that we don't know whether or not these
people like this young man with this
terrible story from Connecticut yes we
don't know whether or not he would have
become a schizophrenic and and exhibited
those symptoms without the marijuana we
really don't know we do know he did with
it that's that's correct and and what I
would also say is that for somebody like
that and this is quite clear on a
population level basis with people with
schizophrenia is you've got to
discourage them from
using we really have to be described
because it brings out the worst Brian
and and you know somebody said this a
friend of mine of old friend mine from
the New York Times said so every time
there's a hurricane people some people
on the right say well you can't prove
that global warming caused that one
hurricane that would have happened
anyway and he and they're right you
can't prove it and you can't prove that
any one case of psychosis was caused by
marijuana but when you look at the big
studies at the population level data the
Association is really clear and
everything points the same way and the
synthetic cannabinoids k2 and spice
those can clearly produce psychosis in
people and people with psychosis tend to
slip back into it if they use at some
point you got to start to say to
yourself why does everything go the same
way yeah I also have a personal friend
and I'd really didn't think about this
guy but there's another personal friend
that I know that is a martial arts
instructor that had a psychotic break he
became schizophrenic and he's a regular
marijuana user and the people around him
associated that with that and in fact
people that are regular cannabis users
were trying to get him to stop using
marijuana if you're close to being on
the edge and you use a little bit of
cannabis for sure let me tell you
something this guy was not on the edge
when I knew him when I knew him he was
very rational very rational but
something happened somewhere along the
line was he would did he become a pretty
heavy smoker over time I do not know
because we don't live in the same area
anymore but he got really heavily really
heavily medicated and did some really
crazy shit and wanted being hospitalized
and this was not the case before I mean
whatever it was that triggered him I
mean it when I was around him when he
was younger I would have said he's a
total normal guy and I would have never
saw that coming he was a heavy marijuana
user
heavy heavy but I don't know how he's
doing now I hope he's okay but we're you
know we have mutual friends yeah and he
became a schizophrenic and and you know
you will see you know cases like that
but you know when you do look at a lot
of the larger data on cannabis and
violence I mean it's just it's just not
there like there's lots of data that
suggests that you know medical marijuana
laws for example can actually have a
decrease in overall
they could I mean laughing there's a
study that says it gives no comfort to
the people who lose their children
because of these psychotic breaks that's
right and those studies are really bad
so the place that you can criticize bad
though because they're because state
level data is not great the place the
book has been criticized or andr there
was a rand review though and in 2013 and
I mean that that's again that statement
that marijuana use does not induce
violent crime and the links between
marijuana use and property client crime
are feign right there I think we all
agree that marijuana use by itself with
people that aren't schizophrenic
probably doesn't induce violent crime
but with people that are schizophrenic
or people where it triggers
schizophrenia it could potentially
induce violent crime my friend did not
get violent although he did do a violent
thing it wasn't to a person yeah I think
I think we have to be really careful
because there's no just like with diet
just like with the food and you know
like allergies all these different
variabilities when it comes to human
beings I think we have to be really
really careful about lumping all people
together when it comes to how they get
affected by various compounds yes so so
the state levels thing if you want so
the place the book has been criticized
in my mind sort of the most fairly is it
points out that in the four states that
legalized first which is Alaska
Washington Oregon Colorado if you look
at 2013 and then you compare that to
2017 mm-hmm murders and AGG assaults
violent crime are up substantially in
those states and substantially more than
in the US can I stop you there is there
a possibility there's a correlation
between organized crime because one of
the things about selling marijuana is
the people that have always been selling
marijuana have been criminals when you
make things legal in a state the people
that were selling an illegal flock to
that state and that's true so that
there's there's a direct correlation
between people being robbed that there
was also a significant problem with
credit cards and banks where everyone
was having to do all the transactions
with cash there was a lot of violence as
was associated with marijuana in regards
to that and also massive increase in
population so so and that's so where the
reason
why Trump is actually not really against
cannabis in some ways it's because he
feels that if we have medical marijuana
laws that especially the states that are
that the better border states that the
crimes gonna drop drops tremendously and
it has dropped they they did a study
last year and it dropped over the drop
seven percent in Arizona and then again
you know Benjamin Hanson who's who's in
the data so far so he said that the
murder rate did not demonstrate that
marijuana legalization increases Vons
and then it may have actually
demonstrated that legalization slightly
decrease ponts and he thinks that the
reason that there was an increase in the
murder rate particularly in Washington
is because there was a large income gap
they say a Washington has the tenth
largest income gap in the United States
and that's how did that change how they
respond to the murderer
good question Durham I'm so I haven't
you know I didn't get to speak with
Benjamin about this
it sounds like confirmation bias well he
I mean if that that is one thing that
has been shown to you know increase
mental illness like we talked about and
can definitely increase violence is when
you have an income gap right but how's
the income gap shifted that directly
correlates to the legalization of
marijuana because during the scene
because during the same period the
income gap particularly in Washington
and increased so he feels that you know
a corresponding number right so he feels
that that it's it's likely more to that
and I mean he I mean I understand but I
mean you have to respect this guy I mean
I don't respect them because I know what
he did with his data and so Joe this
this is maddening to me okay okay okay
violent crime in those four states
increased more rapidly than in the u.s.
period between 2013 and 2017 just
conjecture aside no credible data exists
it supports a significant association
between the increased violent crime and
marijuana legalization furthermore
studies suggest that so far violent
crime decreases in states with legalized
medical marijuana until new research
credibly suggests otherwise that claim
that a demonstratable
link between the two exist
will remain classified as fault okay so
that's just not true okay I know it's
knope's okay and I know we trust Snopes
how do we trust them that okay there's a
lot I was gonna say that too but they're
they give all of their their source
right okay
so again my lease do you are you on of
those where are these sources and what's
wrong with it here let me just go back
to okay what I'm saying yeah please do
2013 Oregon Washington Colorado Alaska
mm-hmm there are 450 murders in those
four states there are 30,000 AGG
assaults period okay 2017 Oregon
Washington Colorado Alaska there are 620
murders in those four states that's an
almost 40% increase there are 38,000 AGG
assaults that's a 25% increase if you
adjust for population you still get big
increases in Denver 2018 almost 70
murders there were about 35 in 2013
Seattle
27 2018 there were 34 35 murders there
were I think 19 in 2013 these increases
are real okay
they now now okay can we say that
marijuana legalization caused those
increases we cannot yet there are other
possibilities and your what are those
well one positive all population deed
increase it's also possible that these
states quote-unquote imported violent
crime in other words that you got a
population of transients coming in in
part because marijuana was legal but
those people are likely to commit
violent crime and on top of that
organized crime people that are selling
absolutely there may have been some
people who are exporting to Nebraska to
Minnesota to other states there's crime
associated with that but what I am
saying is that unequivocally
unequivocally the people who said
legalization is going to decrease
violent crime and people did say that
and Cory Booker in 2010 17 said it he
said that it actually had decreased
violent crime in states that legalized
and he didn't say it randomly he said it
when he was introducing legislation to
legalize marijuana on the federal level
those people are wrong and they need to
stop saying it I know and by the way
that Oregon economist used he used the
wrong data set for his charts okay
he used I used the real numbers okay the
FBI homicide numbers
he used numbers that include justifiable
homicide no police that's not right
because the FBI reported that the murder
rate went up 1% from 2015 to 2016 as
compared the nationwide which went up
one point nine percent and then it
dropped by eleven point six percent
between 2016 and twenty seconds with do
not know what you're talking about okay
those are FBI numbers I'm reading not
know what you're talking about
the numbers are clear okay
I use them reading them right now 2016
release of FBI uniform crime reports
from Oregon okay
yes Oregon you're not reading the
reports from the United States you're
picking one state for Jamie Gries the
entire country from that time period to
so yes I picked those four states where
marijuana was legalized is it sort of
cherry picking you know it's not it's
picking every stable country arrays
that's what I'm trying to show yes if
something wrong will pull back so we can
see the holes so first of all that's a
that's violent crime for knitters and a
crime rate be in there
Oh violent crime and that assaults
aren't they
no so so so the four categories of
violent crime are murder AGG assault
robbery and rape rape has sort of gone
sideways the last years robberies
actually have gone down it's murders and
AGG assaults that are inter personal
violent crime okay just to go back to
this Oregon economist because this
Madden's me he used a dataset that is
not the standard data set to report
murder what is the difference he used
the data set that includes justifiable
homicides meaning I'm in my house you
come in I shoot you and kill you the
police don't charge me with anything
right and police homicides let's not let
an interrupt let me finish the those two
categories of crime are not likely to be
impacted by cannabis use cops are not
smoking when they're on patrol I hope
and if you are using you're very
unlikely to have your murder viewed as
justifiable homicide the fair comparison
is the base murder rate in the US and
that's the number that
used and I am Telling You I mean I know
these numbers I sleep you know I wake up
with these numbers cannabis the for
cannabis legal states on a per capita
basis crime murders rose 31 percent on a
per capita basis in those four states
over the 2013 2017 period maybe I'm
sorry I said 31 maybe it's 29 percent so
maybe I say I woke up with anyway the
for the US it's 18 percent 29 percent
versus 18 percent that's the gap and I
am NOT saying that I know that cannabis
legalization caused that gap what I'm
saying is people need to stop claiming
that cannabis legalization reduces
violent crime it in it has increased in
those I asked you in those states was it
Universal the increase was it almost
identical yes Alaska was the most then I
think merged went up more in color in
Washington and and what's also
interesting job if you're if you really
want to bring go into the numbers is the
gap actually widened year by year so
that's sort of what you would expect if
this is the result of a psychomimetic
effect in other words a psychosis
causing effect because cannabis doesn't
cause psychosis it's right away people
breakdown but if it's causing heavy use
and some of those people are sliding
into you know paranoia and psychosis
you'd sort of expect the gap to increase
over time and that's what's happened
okay so you know I'm gonna go back again
to the Netherlands okay because they've
had you know cannabis legalized forever
and they have one fifth of the homicide
rate that the United States does right
so they also have a lower cannabis use
that's true but still you know one one
kickboxers on one one fifth I mean it's
still it's pretty drastic overall and
and again you know Alex you know you
know I appreciate some of the way we're
talking about the correlation between
cannabis use one of the things that we
have to accept in America is that when
you're in a place like the Netherlands
it has a long and accepted history of
use people are accustomed to it so I
think things kind of even out I think
one of the things that we're dealing
with with the United States is people
that have just they don't they don't
have
history of experience and it becomes
legal and then they use it and maybe
some of them like we're talking about
don't have a tolerance for it have too
much and like I was talking about with
my friend who's like this really cotton
one who had an edible and became
suicidal and this fucked up for weeks
that is very confident very articulate
very intelligent he's not a not a weirdo
not a not transient extreme extremely
successful you know I think there are
there are variables that we need to take
into consideration there's certain human
beings that exhibit a pattern of
behavior that's directly correlated to
cannabis use that I don't experience so
if I could say from my own personal
biases that that's bullshit that's
nothing it doesn't do anything I've been
smoking for years doesn't do shit well
you probably don't have one of those
three genes that we were talking about
and you probably also too you know don't
overuse or you have some type of you
know legitimacy as to why you you are
you are using it and you know one I want
to keep going with this but you know at
the end of the show I think that we
should make some type of like
recommendations for people just because
I hate when you know you have this big
you know three-hour podcast and then at
the end of it it's just like hey guys
just be safe you know some type of like
recommendations like I love the podcast
with with with with crecer and Joel
Wright but at the at the end of it was
just sort of like hey guys don't eat the
American diet I think most people
realize that one person was going on
data and the other person was you know
yeah yeah I mean I'm sure I find it so
fascinating that now when you think back
through your you know through your life
you've thought of somebody who was
affected I have several people I'll bet
I'll bet if you think about it you'll
think of more people
no I maybe but those are the big ones
and like I said my friend who is a
martial arts instructor was a pretty
significant issue with a lot of our
friends we were trying to figure out
what was wrong with him beforehand he
was sending me these videos that didn't
make any sense
and I was like what in the fuck is this
like I'll explain to you more off him
Arabic so I don't have to out this guy
but a lot of people that were close to
him were really seriously concerned now
it is it something that would have
happened anyway I don't know don't how
is he since 20s late 20s 20 you know
that's right around the age so a little
a little bit late ish because like I
said a lot of the studies even when you
look at the ones on adolescence like for
sure it's it's below like they have done
studies like below 18 is worse yes and
say below 25 below 15 is worse than say
18 like the younger you go the worse and
he seems to be fine now that's good
that's good is he using that I don't
know after I know and it's you know I'm
not an expert on this subject but it's
because of this of something called
pruning that we go through so everyone
goes through this and basically if your
adolescence you're going to drop off
some some weak neural connections to
kind of pick up some stronger ones you
know it's the best way to kind of
explain it when you use cannabis you can
potentially accelerate that process and
then because you accelerate that process
you don't get those good neural
connections and then you know people
unfortunately you know develop things
like like psychosis and in schizophrenia
so you know that's kind of where they
were the issue lies so you know one
thing that I am you know very happy that
we're talking about and I know Alex will
be too is that you know we want to
discuss the benefits in this podcast
make sure that people understand that
you know I believe that marijuana is
medicine it's an excellent medicine but
the other thing too is we do want to
mitigate the risks because there are
real risks out there so you know I do
appreciate you know us talking about
adolescents and making sure that they do
stay away from cannabis yeah and I mean
especially that's like I've read these
you know these cases the case files
sometimes you know the kids started
using when he was 11 and you know it's
like that kid never had a chance right
man and obviously oftentimes these are
kids coming from disadvantaged
backgrounds anyway but you know they're
using by 11 and it's 16
they put a you know put a gun to
somebody's head and pull the trigger I
mean the the pre-adolescent and early
teen use we got to do everything we can
to stop the problem is yeah like if you
if you smoke pot and junior high like
say seven eight nine like you're
probably gonna smoke pot and highs yeah
like that's the I mean that's what I saw
but we're not when I was growing up and
you know even when I was home for
Christmas for a few days like yeah a
couple of my friends even talked about
you know some people that we knew
you know smoked tunne pot in high school
and like now like they're they're
they're crazier they're not really doing
too too much you know so but you do have
to be careful with that
I think there's a lot of ignorance we're
dealing with a lot of ignorance and a
current when it comes to biological
variability right we we don't really
understand how a lot of these different
things affect people including like just
diet and what what what causes
depression like how much how much of
what we constitute or what we just
decide is depression is inflammation
poor gut health there's a lot of
variables there's a lot of them
marijuana is absolutely one of those
variables and again I don't have an
issue with it I liked it I love the
stuff but it does it doesn't fuck with
me right but I'm also honest and so I
see these people were it's pretty
obvious to me that something's going on
and that marijuana is not a good idea
for them and I just think you know like
I said in the past I'd might put myself
have been guilty of using this this sort
of blanket description of it as being a
positive influence and then it's a good
thing for people I don't think it's a
good thing for everybody no it's
definitely not a good thing for
everybody and it's definitely not a good
thing for the people who have that those
genetics that I discussed earlier and
you know also to like you know if you
you need to have some type of like self
awareness like the people who you know
don't do well with cannabis you know you
shouldn't have to you to have your
friends tell you that you came ain't
like you're not going to work
you should got yourself like but that's
hard for people yeah that's one of the
most difficult things for people to do
is itself of self assess yeah you know
to be objective you know and and it's a
really I've obviously I've heard from a
lot of people who used heavily and seen
other people who've used heavily and
last month and I think is very
interesting why people continue to use
when they're getting paranoid and and
you know the most cogent argument and
again I'm I'm not it you know you've
smoked a handful of times in college in
Afrikaans I actually don't think I'd be
comfortable using high THC cannabis now
knowing what I know but anyway so the
people the most got some right here I'm
gonna get hotbox
to put on the most I thought I was so
interesting this guy said well you know
my friends I've talked to them I said
I'm paranoid now but I'm gonna smoke
through it I'm gonna smoke so much that
I'm almost comfortable being paranoid
and I think that's a dangerous thing to
do to your mind because you're you're
sort of counting on being able to step
back from that and stop using yeah
that's a that's a silly way of looking
at it I think that some of what we call
paranoia just normal paranoia is hyper
sensitivity and hyper awareness and
awareness to a lot of things that you're
putting off in the back your head
because in order to function as a normal
person get through this life you can't
really be aware of everything otherwise
you'd be yes look you paralyzed by fear
we're in space okay we are on a gigantic
ball that's spinning a thousand miles an
hour
curling through infinities this is
reality
take us out thin layer of gas it's
protecting us from everything that's
flying around in our like the Sun is
gonna end like at the I mean imagine if
people do live to an infinite number we
realize something son is dying you're
gonna freak out about that it's all
relative right so there there's only so
much you really can't think about in
some of what paranoia is is this hyper
awareness of all these variables that
you really haven't haven't considered
and then also we're talking about before
the things that can be beneficial
the hyper awareness of how you
communicated with people maybe you could
have done a better job with that maybe
you you came in hot maybe you were upset
about something else when you ran into
them you were already at a seven and
they brought you to a 10 it was totally
unnecessary within a normal situation
you would have only been a tattoo those
things are real and sometimes marijuana
helps highlight all the errors in your
way I think it can be a tool but my
description of it is like any other tool
with it like a hammer you can build a
house of the hammer or you can just hit
yourself in the dick if you're fucking
crazy and this this is something that I
think we should consider when we're
discussing almost any psychedelic
medicine and I think that I really do
believe that marijuana is a psychedelic
and I don't even think it's a mild one
especially when it's in edible form I
don't think it's mild at all yeah I mean
that there's some people that come in to
my office for example and like just when
I meet them like after one or two
minutes I was just I just got to decide
in my head this person's not using THC
right you know like this this person is
ancient what could what gives you those
elders anxious yeah it's just a feeling
of they're not really they're not
someone who can just sit and kind of
like be by themself you know they just
kind of give me the impression that you
know they're not going to do well with
cannabis because if they have any type
of change in their in their psyche
they're gonna see that as bad that's bad
you know right and like you got it when
you're using cannabis you you have to be
sown and who-who knows that okay I'm
gonna get a little bit of maybe paranoia
doubt or at least my psyche is gonna
change a little bit I am using you know
psychoactive substance and not be able
to freak out right but some people you
know I know that if they use a little
bit of THC they probably would have a
freakout they probably would have a bad
experience generates people who are you
know very very fearful you know the
other side of that coin though is that
if you use CBD and like we discussed
earlier that can decrease learned fear
right so so that's so you know that's
something that's really helpful for
those patients but you know I do agree
that you know we have to be careful
about using high THC in certain groups
of people for sure
you know I think one of the it's great
to hear dr. Hart say this I one of the
real disappointments for me with this
book has been but really the biggest
this point for me has been that the DPA
the drug policy Alliance and that some
of the other advocates they just want to
yell at me and they want to say that I
don't understand correlation and
causation and then I'm cherry-picking
studies let's let's acknowledge that a
lot of people use this drug and that's
true whether it's legal or not and let's
acknowledge that probably in 2020
certainly if there's a Democrat elected
most of the Democratic candidates have
said they they favor legalization there
will legalized cannabis will probably be
the law in the United States okay and
let's talk about what we're gonna tell
people who are using and and and you
know I had this roundtable with the
executive director of the DPA and some
other people this was a this is about a
month ago you know sure shortly after
the book came out and I proposed what I
thought were really common-sense
warnings and she basically wouldn't
agree and she agreed to like one of the
five of them I were the warnings you
proposed it was stuff like you know if
cannabis if you have a family history of
severe mental illness you probably
should not use cannabis you probably you
should not use Kant or try to delay your
use until you're in your 20s I think was
one of them and one of them I mean I
thought I couldn't believe I was getting
pushed back on this was was something
like if if you're having strange
thoughts especially paranoid thoughts
while using cannabis the drug may be
increasing your risk for severe mental
illness and you should not use it I mean
I think that's I think if you know now
look we can argue about how severe
severe is right but certainly if you
wind up in the ER even once yeah that's
a bad sign yeah I just I just don't
understand why the legalization look I
can understand why people who are
selling this drug don't care right we
know if you know if tobacco has taught
us one thing is that when you're selling
a product you will sell it to people
even if it kills them okay but I don't
understand why these people who are
supposed to be science driven and
supposed to be thinking about the
greater good won't agree to reasonable
discussions about the what the warning
should be on this I think you did
yourself a slight disservice by not
including some of the beneficial aspects
of cannabis I
standing your perspective I understand
why you were doing that because you
really wanted to highlight the dangers
but I think that's one of the things
that they can point to when they say you
cherry pick data but I think that also
it's really important to when you're
having these kind of conversations to
have a long one I mean this we've really
covered the full gamut right and I think
this is probably one of the reasons why
Bill Maher didn't want to have you on
because he's got five other people on
the panel everybody's talking over
everybody and you have five minutes to
get your case out and I don't think it's
possible yes I think this is a really
this is a long complicated discussion
that has to do with biological
variabilities it has to do with unique
situations with human human psychology
the way the brain functions whether or
not it can act as a trigger to
schizophrenia where someone may not have
ever experienced that trigger without it
maybe if they just became a
long-distance runner and they would have
lived a healthy life with no psychotic
breaks at all we don't really know and
unfortunately once someone goes off the
deep end we might never find out yes and
sorry go on no I'm just saying I think
we have to be very careful in saying we
know what it does we know what anything
does cuz you don't know you know what it
does for you you know some some people
can't eat fish
you know the fucking shellfish and their
their throat seizes up we there's so
many variables when it comes to the
human body whether it's your genetics or
you know what you've eaten in the past
and how its shaped your gut biome
there's so much that we don't know and
don't understand about how we interact
with all the various substances that we
take into our body yes yeah what one
thing though - you know I note it in
your book Alex is that you know you said
that you didn't think that cannabis can
help the opioid epidemic is that true I
certainly don't think it's a good idea
for people who are at risk of opioid use
okay so you know I have seen a lot of
people in my practice come off of
opioids with cannabis use and there are
you know various medical studies that do
show that people who use cannabis cane
cane replace opioids with with that
candy because a lot of folks feel though
that that's a pain in you know in
defensive that does just a patch and
they're really the best way to get off
of opiates is ibogaine and that ibogaine
which is
the the repeat rate of addiction of
people try it again afterwards is really
low i I think I you know one of the
things that that is just the
accessibility the affordability like
I've never administered ibogaine before
well it was it's illegal in the United
States but you mean in it's a
particularly ruthless medication that
I've never tried personally but the
people that I know that have tried it
have had spectacular results especially
people that have had problems with pills
yeah in fact a friend of mine my friend
ed clay he opened up a clinic in Mexico
based on his own interaction with with
pills he had an injury he got hooked on
the pills and really had a fucking
problem so went down to Mexico and went
through a navigating session and cured
him just whacked it out did it change
literally changes the way your brain
interfaces with your addiction it's not
it's not simply a perspective enhancer
it changes how you your body and your
brain deal with with opiates
I think Tim Ferriss has actually talked
about that before
yes well yeah but I mean you know I've
seen it in my practice and there are
medical studies so I don't think that we
should throw out the fact that you know
cannabis can can help the opioid crisis
and then also to you you want to look at
it from a clinical perspective right so
we know that opioids can kill people
right because it acts on the brain stem
whereas whereas you know cannabis
doesn't so you know you might be saying
you know you're just substituting one
for the other and you know sometimes
that is true but if you're using a less
harmful substance you know to me that's
like a huge win right so if someone you
know has to drink you know 12 beers a
night versus smoking like one joint man
that's that's awesome and I mean you
look at all all these clinics like you
look at like methadone clinics I mean
what are they doing they're trying to
get people off one substance to you know
a substance that is a little bit less
harmful and I think that when you when
you use cannabis you know it can be
effective for opioids it can also be
effective for benzodiazepines and for
other medicines as well so you know it
would be awesome if everyone would just
you know feel happy and great all the
time by just exercise and nutrition and
you know that's what I advocate and
that's what I try to do
personally and that's what I try to you
know say to my patients all the time but
I understand though that you know
sometimes life is hard sometimes you
know if things hit you you know you have
you have crisis in your life you have
you know personal crisis that can you
know throw off your mental health and
then you have you get into a car
accident you know and you could be in
really severe pain and and in those
times you know sometimes diet exercise
meditation doing all the right things
just isn't quite enough and you know I
think that it's great that we have
cannabis for those situations because it
does seem to be you know very effective
and has less side effects compared to
some of the other met it's compared to
some of the other medicines that we have
traditionally used and you know even
though you know I'm talking about
opiates and deaths you know we can also
talk about insights right like
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs so
you know these drugs can also you know
wreak havoc under GI system
I saw one study actually I tweeted out
ronda patrick tweeted out said that if
you use NSAIDs it was really short I got
to look it up again but it was like two
weeks it can decrease your jrgen a door
opens which can stimulate your
testosterone level by like 25 percent
and on that note - we should talk about
I can't believe it forgot to talk about
this but opiates can drastically inhibit
your your testosterone production right
which is a huge thing for depression
because I've had guys come in to me
before that have been you know really
really depressed you just give them a
small amount of testosterone a man
they're off their antidepressants and
they're off to the races they're doing
great so you know are we creating a lot
of people who are who are depressed
because they're using opiates and their
testosterone levels are low and you know
for men I mean having low testosterone
horrible you know your libido goes when
you're gonna have low motivation you
know you're not going to feel as well
you're not gonna want to do things so
you know if you're giving someone a
medicine that that that nails their
their testosterone levels down that's
gonna really you know wreak havoc on
their mental health I just want to make
a note too because bang Greenfield -
again I really really respect I like
that guy a lot you know it was talking a
little bit with
about testosterone and and and cannabis
and how can drop it so I think there was
three studies I saw done on on humans
and two of them noted no statistical
difference and drop in testosterone
levels and one study the other study
noted a small statistical difference so
you know I think that you know it may
drop your testosterone levels a little
bit but it's not gonna you know
substantially drop them so just so
people people know know that because I
know that comes up all the time you know
yes as the as the as the dumb anti-drug
advocates like to say doobies cause
boobies risperdal causes that's a
different issue risperdal an
anti-psychotic
risperidone yeah so so look I think I
think the issue of whether cannabis is a
gateway drug there it's a hundred
percent clear that cannabis is a gateway
drug the argument is we see a hostile
harmful thing is that clear
the argument is why okay so so it's
quite clear that cannabis use oftentimes
proceeds other drug use whether it's
opioids cocaine other drugs now one
argument and this actually
pro-legalization argument is one reason
it's a gateway is that if it's illegal
you gotta buy it from your friendly
neighborhood dealer he might have access
to heroin or cocaine other drugs and so
eventually maybe you decide to try one
of those other drugs so actually that's
really why the Dutch legalized they
wanted to create an avenue for people to
use cannabis that wasn't connected to
other drugs okay
another possibility is that using an
addictive intoxicating substance you
might like it and you might want to try
other addictive intoxicating substances
and it might prime your brain and then
the third possibility really is that
they're just some people risk takers out
there right they use they're gonna use
cannabis they're going to gamble they're
gonna in cannabis a little bit easier to
access than other drugs so they're
probably gonna try cannabis first so
it's not really that that cannabis drive
the use it's just that cannabis is first
they're just curious people what's your
thoughts on well what I will say I mean
I'm just gonna go back to the name
report right and I mean I mean you quote
these people yes in your book you know
so this committee couldn't find
sufficient data demonstrating an
association between cannabis suits and
nishan the opioid use they found no
compelling evidence to support the
gateway drug theory so so again but
that's the goes the people that you
quote in your book so there's been more
research done since then but what does
have radically changed I would say
things have changed some here's here's
here's what I would brother I think that
probably it's a combination of these
things right it's there's certainly an
environmental factor where again if
you're buying from somebody who's gotten
access to other illegal drugs maybe you
try those drugs at the same time getting
high it feels good and maybe you want to
try other drugs and at the same time
you're just a risk taker
okay what is what nobody seriously ever
said until about the last five years is
that cannabis could be an off-ramp for
opioids okay and there's a lot of
reasons to believe that's a really bad
idea
first of all cannabis if you actually
need opioids for pain relief cannabis is
not a good enough pain reliever
it's like alcohol it's a mild pain
reliever it's not strong enough you're
dying from cancer cannabis it probably
is not the pain reliever that you need
you need opioids okay and the again the
state level data is not as good if you
want to really figure out what's
happening to an individual the best way
to do that is to follow that individual
and there's a really good paper that
came out in 2017 after the NAMM report
so they didn't have it that shows that
people who used cannabis in 2001 is
based on a large national study in the
US were three times as likely to be
using opioids
three years later okay and that just
intuitively makes sense to me and the
other thing that people on the
legalization side don't ever talk about
is who are the two countries that have
the most cannabis use in the West the US
and Canada where the two who are the two
countries that have by far the worst
opioid epidemic the US and Canada okay
but there's a real issue with that
because the United States is also the
only country other than New Zealand that
allows pharmaceutical context yes I mean
there's a there's
the amount doesn't the amount of opiates
that are prescribed the United States is
fucking preposterous
I agree particularly the V I don't know
if you ever saw the documentary the
oxycontin Express but the way Florida
used to be structured where they didn't
have a database yeah maybe you could
just literally go from embassy to
pharmacy yeah yeah we have a problem
with the way we prescribe drugs in this
country opioids ATD drugs benzos SSRIs
all are connected to Canada so makes
sense that it would filter over there
yes but what I would say is the people
who think that cannabis is not part of
that overprescribing problem are
deluding themselves and what do you
think did that so he can't repeat the
question so so so I agree with Joe with
the way the access to opioids in the US
I mean certainly it's come down a little
bit in the last couple years but you
know Purdue Pharma there's a special
place in hell for those guys but not
just not just opiates we prescribe too
many benzos we prescribe too many a DD
drugs we probably prescribe too many
SSRIs we prescribe too much in this
country I think we all agree I think
that cannabis is another example of us
looking for a drug to solve our problem
but what I'm ok again just from a
clinical perspective you know I can't
just rely on on diet and exercise for
all my patients I have to use other
tools and again like everyone here in
this room like we're all pretty healthy
I don't have you know a bad back or you
know I don't have a mental health
diagnosis or anything going on so you
know I have to look at patients that are
coming to me right so the way I see it
is that you know we just mentioned a
bunch of other drugs you know
antidepressant synthetic means all these
types of things you know cannabis and
again you know I'm gonna separate the
THC and the CBD
it's an incredible medicine and it
doesn't kill people right so as a
clinician you know that that's so
comforting for me to know that every
single night I go to bed I killed zero
people I know that right so that's
really really comforting for me to know
also I feel you know we're just talking
about amphetamines and we were just
talking about you know SSRIs I feel that
cannabis you know particularly the CBD
component can actually be more effective
you know that's what I've seen a lot in
my practice and other people have seen
that as well
you know I think that we need to need to
take that into consideration when we're
using all these drugs and Alex you know
some of the things that you're saying
you know they're quite you know a
durable and and in a lot of things like
researchers say you know are quite a
durable as well and and you know they
they feel that they can you know tell
clinicians you know give them really
good advice but they're not the ones in
the trenches they're not the ones in
front of the people they're not the ones
that that have to have to chat with
patients you know I have an obligation
to do something for my patients to make
them better I really feel you know we
just listed a bunch of drugs that
cannabis is a really really effective
tool and and it doesn't kill anybody so
you know because of that you know I'm
gonna I'm gonna keep keep using it but
like I said I'm always looking for other
drugs I'm always looking for other you
know alternatives that to also help my
patients but I think that you know using
cannabis is a really effective tool for
a lot of clinicians and it's helped a
lot of patients but what do you think
about his argument about it being a
gateway drug other than what these
people have said in the study that
there's no evidence it supports it's a
gateway drug what are your personal
feelings about that argument so I I
don't feel that that cannabis is the
gateway drug I do feel that you know one
of the the things that you mentioned
earlier is that you know some people
kind of had this personality where
they're like Andres parent right and
they they just they just want to want to
try something so you know the fact is
that alcohol and cannabis just get
introduced first most of time most
people you know don't do you know coke
or LSD and then he say hey man let us
try some some cannabis right so it's
just that that's the very first one
there so if we so you could say anything
that was easier access if there was some
new drug that you know did something
similar to alcohol or similar to
cannabis and that was introduced in in
our society you'd be calling that the
gateway drug well and I do feel and I I
do laughs clearly been demonstrated as
being the gateway drug to almost all
hard drugs because the loosening of
inhibitions whereas the opposite could
be said about cannabis that it makes you
paranoid you might actually be less
likely to try cocaine after
and and I know that the name you know
they don't they don't feel that the
cannabis is a gateway drug either I mean
again they said you know they found no
compelling evidence to support the
Gateway theory and again I mean these
are the people that you are and in your
book out right let me just go a little
bit further they said in a retrospective
cohort study may it from et al and the
2016 examined the transition from
cannabis use to the use of other illicit
drugs they found that the probability of
initiating other illicit drugs after
cannabis did not differ significantly
from the probability of starting with
other illicit drugs so it's just that
cannabis is their first it's definitely
not a gateway drug in any stretch of the
imagination again I I just I totally
disagree and there again there was 50
years of data on this I know the studies
that he's quoting but there are there
are many others and I think the argument
is as to why and again I think the
argument that that to some extent having
access to this drug via you know
illegally tends to open you up to other
illegal stuff which are to me is already
made for legalization so but I do want
to throw one thing out there you know I
don't know how many of your viewers have
teenage kids or you know it's probably
they're probably more likely to be
teenage kids and to have teenage kids
but you know the book has the one thing
that really worries me in the if we're
talking about gateway drugs is that
Jewel and vaping are really a gateway to
THC vaping so you can you know you can
write it up because well first of all it
gets people it gets kids teenagers used
to inhaling you know this illicit
substance and you can actually retrofit
a jewel pod with THC they don't sell
them but you can you know you can easily
go online and look up how to do it and I
think it really worries me and I've
heard from a lot of parents in the last
month that there is an epidemic of
nicotine vaping and THC vaping going on
right now and that I think and we're
talking about 15 16 17 year-olds
inhaling pure THC the most dangerous
form of this drug and I think
unfortunately it's not going to take
long before the mental health
consequence
of that become apparent and and I really
do hope that the book gives parents some
tools to talk to their kids about that
if nothing else last words I would
actually wanted to go over a few things
that maybe I thought you might be
interested in
okay okay so you know you're a dude
you're over 50 so prostate cancer so you
know it's been shown that CBD may
actually be beneficial for prostate
cancer and one thing within that too in
the same study they actually found that
people who used CBD and we're on
chemotherapeutics is actually augmented
the efficacy of what you think they're
good for prostate cancer do you mean to
prevent it do you need to treat it
prevent and treat yeah yeah and then
they say you know THC may actually be a
little bit effective because a cane and
this comes back to testosterone but it
can antagonize DHT so DHT is another
testosterone you know hormone as you
know and that's you know more more
linked to prostate cancer one thing to
know we didn't get really get to talk
about was CTE and and concussions you
know I know a lot of your viewers are in
MMA and all about that and I tweeted out
a study the other day that you were
tweet and I really appreciate that you
know and Jesse owns a 3-year study show
that the mortality rate overall was
there was nine and a half percent for
people who had suffered a TBI people who
test it I know you know we talked about
correlation causation but you know the
THC users only had a two point four
percent mortality rate the non T she was
just had 11.5% whatever I mean that's
really really significant right like
it's just THC and not CBD because CBD
has been shown to be very beneficial for
people with traumatic brain injuries
yeah yeah it's actually pdn THC or both
beneficial yes so that was you know
again a correlation you can causation
but I mean that that the stats are so
over overwhelming like if it was you
know non cheatsy was like three point
five percent I woulda bring it up but
it's eleven point five eleven point five
percent compared to two point four
percent and again CBD yes and there's
even yo mechanisms of action have even
been identified with that it decreases
you know in inflammation in your brain
post concussion you know one last thing
to again there's only one study
so and it was done on rats but you know
I'm I'm Aikido guy too but the study on
rats interestingly it showed that if you
have if you do have a high-fat diet that
you can actually decrease sensitivity at
the cb1 receptor and they think that
that's just because there's an increase
in your endogenous cannabinoids to AG
and in an amide when you when you do
have a high-fat diet and then you kind
you don't go okay sure
and then Alzheimer's you know again I
know your plus plus 50 so you know
cheats II know 30 watts to keep doing
this podcast young forever be excused to
stop
so THC has been shown to inhibit the
formation of beta amyloid plaque so
that's the you know the hallmark of
Alzheimer's disease and then CBT CBD has
also been shown to be effective for for
all-stars disease as well you know it
was a rat study that was gonna get into
but it's it's fairly fairly it's fairly
detailed so you know might be best just
to say that Akane you know help with
rescue memory and patients if you do you
CBD meaning that it may actually reverse
and that's been shown before too they've
done that in mice I got interrupted okay
and I think you would agree this data is
some of it's some of it's sort of
epidemiological some of its preclinical
it's very very early none of it really
proves my dad but but let me say I'm a
clinician okay
if someone comes to me and they have a
concussion it's very fresh strangest to
say to them hey physical cognitive
should rest go home okay it's really
frustrating to say that's somewhat also
to you know that the high-fat diet thing
you know Joe and I both follow you know
very very similar diet so that's
something I want to share with regards
to you know the the Alzheimer's disease
we have really really poor medications
for that and we have an aging population
so again like Alex like you want to look
at everything which is what I'm doing
like I'm looking at everything and I'm
trying to make a clinical decision am I
using some things like without
you know randomized control trials of
course a.m. but again on the condition
so I'm using you know mechanisms of
action I'm using what I've see and in
clinic and I'm using epidemiological
studies and I'm also taken into account
what other medicines do I have you know
based upon all the data this seems to be
ineffective treatment and I am
absolutely not saying that you as a
clinician shouldn't do that especially
your in Canada cannabis is legal you
should you should use your best judgment
what I'm saying is that when we're
talking about policy decisions around
cannabis and THC and to a much lesser
sense CBD the advocacy groups have
seized on this very very preliminary
data to say a lot of things about
cannabis and THC that have not been
proven and you know a guy I know in
Peter Bock who very smart these a
pulmonologist he's at Memorial
sloan-kettering in New York and he wrote
a piece in The Wall Street Journal a few
a couple weeks ago talking about
cannabis as limits as medicine and he
said something that I thought was so
well put which is the reason why people
want cannabis to work for Alzheimer's
and cancer and a bunch of things where
does where there's really no evidence
that it works is that we don't have good
treatments we want cures we want help we
if we're clinicians I mean I'm not a
clinician you're a clinician want to be
able to give people who come into our
office is something but that hope is not
a substitute for science it doesn't mean
then it works and even you want you want
your patients to have hope okay but that
advocates the people who are using this
to push especially to push THC and to
capitalize on the public confusion
around THC and CBD I think that is a
real it's a real disservice to people
okay listen I think we covered
everything it's a complicated subject it
really is and I think it's really
important to discuss how complicated it
is I don't I don't think there's I've
never heard such a detailed analysis of
all this stuff and in a way where you
can get two opposing people that are you
know very civil about it but agree on
certain aspects of it I think I think we
really highlighted all those things Joe
thank you so much Evan thank you thank
you guys thank you so much really
appreciate it doctor our thanks give out
yours
social media please sure so I'm at dr.
Mike Hart on Twitter I'm at dr. Mike art
on Instagram and I'm at dr. Mike art on
on Facebook so it's dr mi ke har T and
Alex your book is tell your children
that's available now it's available
everywhere it's available now and if I
had a copy I'd give you a contest okay
I'll give you the copy i okay alright
well thank you guys thank you very much
pigs
[Music]